EPA Records Schedule 0039
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Alternate Worksite Records
Program: Personnel
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Human Resources Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 General Records Schedule 142
Description:
Includes records related to requests or applications to participate in an alternate worksite program known at EPA as Flexiplace. Also includes agreements between EPA and the employee records relating to the safety of the worksite the installation and use of equipment hardware and software and the use of secure classified information or data subject to the Privacy Act.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Approved requests or applications
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 142a
 Disposable
 Destroy 1 year after end of employees participation in the program.
Item b: Unapproved requests
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 142b
 Disposable
 Destroy 1 year after request is rejected.
Item c: Alternative worksite program evaluations
Includes forms and other records generated by the agency or the participating employee.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 142c
 Disposable
 Destroy when 1 year old or when no longer needed whichever is later.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Reasons for Disposition:
Conforms to NARAs General Records Schedule 1 item 42.
Item d for electronic mail and word processing copies was deleted 08152006 pursuant to NARA Bulletin 2006-04.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
None
Entry: 01062004
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 12002003