EPA Records Schedule 0051
Status: Final 03312015
Title: Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Files Related to Employee Relations
Program: Personnel
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Human Resources Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 General Records Schedule 127
Description:
Consists of alternative dispute resolution files related to workplace grievances and discrimination complaints. Alternative dispute resolution (ADR) is any procedure conducted by a neutral third party that is used to resolve issues in controversy including but not limited to conciliation facilitation mediation fact finding minitrials arbitration and use of ombuds. The records covered by this schedule relate to techniques and processes used in EPAs ADR program in resolving disputes with or between its own employees.
Includes general files containing general correspondence and copies of statutes regulations meeting minutes reports statistical tabulations evaluations of the ADR program and other records relating to EPAs overall ADR program.
Also includes case files documenting ADR proceedings. These files may include an agreement to use ADR documentation of the settlement or discontinuance of the ADR case parties written evaluations of the process andor the neutral third party mediator and related correspondence.
Excludes: 1) Administrative grievance files adverse action files 2) Formal and informal equal employment opportunity proceedings traditional EEO counseling or other records included in the EEO file when a person chooses to go directly to ADR or private party claims or EEOCs involvement with federal sector claims of non-EEOC employees against other federal agencies and 3) Use of ADR in matters affecting public health and the environment which are scheduled separately.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: General files
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 127a
 Disposable
 Close inactive records at end of calendar year.
 Destroy 3 years after file closure.
Item b: Case files
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 127b
 Disposable
 Close inactive records after settlement is implemented or case is discontinued.
 Destroy 3 years after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
See schedule 0564 for administrative grievance disciplinary and adverse action files schedule 0541 for equal employment opportunity (EEO) records and schedule 1025 for environmental ADR program case files.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following change was made in the 03312015 version:
 Revised guidance and cross references.
The following changes were made in the 04302009 version:
 Revised schedule title.
 Revised exclusions in description.
 Updated guidance and cross references.
Conforms to NARAs General Records Schedule 1 item 27.
Item c for electronic mail and word processing copies was deleted 08152006 pursuant to NARA Bulletin 2006-04.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0541 EPA 0564 EPA 1025
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
None
Entry: 01062004
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 12002003