EPA Records Schedule 0054
Status: Final 04302014
Title: Compass Financials (Compass)
Program: Financial Management
Applicability: Headquarters
Function: 402 - Financial Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-94-26
Description:
Compass Financials (Compass) is the replacement system for the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS).
Compass is comprised of several subsystems: Accounts Payable Accounts Receivable Automated Disbursements Budget Execution Fixed Assets General Ledger Purchasing Travel External Reports Project Cost Accounting General Systems System Administration Barch Execution BIRT Reporting Momentum Asset Management (Maximo) and Payment Tracking System (PTS).
Compass interfaces with the following systems: Budget Formulation System Bankcard Payment System Contract Payment System eBusiness System EPA Acquisiton System Fellowship Payment System Integrated Grants Management System GovTrip Interagency Document Online Tracking System Integrated Resource Management System Maximo Property Management PeoplePlus Payroll Property Inventory Update Small Payment Information Tracking System and Web Based Ordering System. Compass Data Warehouse and Compass Business Objects Reporting are part of Compass Financials and supplement reporting capabilities of the core Compass financial system.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: (Reserved)
Item b: (Reserved)
Item c: Electronic data
This item is to be used only by the Office of the Chief Financial Officer Office of Technology Solutions at Headquarters.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-94-26c
 Disposable
 Maintain individual records 6 years and 3 months after final payment then delete when no longer needed unless related to the Superfund program cost recovery efforts (see Agency-wide Guidance).
Item d: (Reserved)
Item e: (Reserved)
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
The predecessor system the Integrated Financial Management System is no longer active.
Records related to Superfund cost recovery are to be retained according to the disposition instructions for schedule 1036 item c.
Electronic software program - The electronic software program formerly item a is to be kept as long as needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. NARA regulations require that electronic records be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and meet NARA-approved disposition. The electronic software program is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Input - Input formerly item b is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Output and reports - For disposition of output and reports formerly item d refer to the records schedule for the activity supported by the output and reports. Follow the disposition instructions for the applicable records schedule item. If more than one records schedule or item applies follow the disposition instructions with the later dates.
System documentation - System documentation including system development documentation formerly item e is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 04302014 version:
 Added Payment Tracking System to the schedule description.
 Updated cross references in guidance.
The following changes were made in the 04302013 version:
 Revised the schedule title and description.
 Deleted items a b d and e which are covered by other schedules.
 Revised guidance.
The following change was made in the 04302008 version:
 Revised disposition instructions for item b.
The following changes were made in the 03312008 version:
 Changed the disposition instructions for items a and b.
 Added applicability to disposition items a c and e.
 Revised title and disposition instructions for item e.
Records must be kept for cost recovery and audit purposes.
Custodians:
Office of the Chief Financial Officer Office of Technology Solutions
 Contact: Heidi Gross
 Telephone: 202-564-6270
Related Schedules:
EPA 1012 EPA 1036
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 05141992
EPA Approval: 10071993
NARA Approval: 11271996