EPA Records Schedule 0062
Status: Final 12312015
Title: Laboratory Information Management Systems (LIMS)
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 316 - Applied Research and Science Support
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-09-7
Description:
Includes laboratory information management systems used in EPA laboratories to receive store and report data generated from laboratory analysis of environmental samples using scientific instruments. Data elements may include sample data who took the sample and where contents of the sample and what was asked to be analyzed who analyzed the sample and when. Data is used to support EPAs environmental programs and often transferred to electronic information systems such as RadNet or similar systems.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: (Reserved)
Item b: (Reserved)
Item c: Electronic data
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-09-7c
 Disposable
 Delete when 3 years old or when no longer needed for the related project or activity whichever is longer.
Item d: (Reserved)
Item e: (Reserved)
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Sampling data incorporated into other files (e.g. Superfund site files) or transferred to other databases (e.g. RadNet) are retained according to the disposition instructions for the records they support.
Electronic software program - The electronic software program formerly item a is to be kept as long as needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. NARA regulations require that electronic records be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition which is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Input - Input formerly item b is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Output and reports - For disposition of output and reports formerly item d refer to the records schedule for the activity supported by the output and reports. Follow the disposition instructions for the applicable records schedule item. If more than one records schedule or item applies follow the disposition instructions with the later dates.
System documentation - System documentation including system development documentation formerly item e refers to those records necessary to document how the system captures manipulates and outputs data. System documentation is transferred to the National Archives along with the electronic data. Disposition of system documentation is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
This schedule includes but is not limited to the following systems listed by headquarters program or regional office:
Office of Air and Radiation
 Laboratory Data Management System (LDMS)
 Laboratory Network System (LNS)
 National Air and Radiation Environmental Lab (NAREL) Laboratory Information Management System (NAREL-LIMS)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Data Repository System (NCRFO DRS)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Environmental Radiation Ground Scanner (NCRFO ERGS)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Filter Weighing Laboratory (NCRFO FL)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Mobil ER Laboratory (NCRFO MERL)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Radon Calibration System (NCRFO RnCal)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Radon Canister System (NCRFO RCS)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Radon Laboratory System (NCRFO Radon Lab)
 National Center for Radiation Field Operations Working Levels (NCRFO WL)
 NVFEL Lab Data Management System (LDMS)
 Office of Radiation and Indoor Air (ORIA) Laboratory Information Management System (ORIA LIMS)
 Radiation and Indoor Environments APEX Alpha System (R&IE APXA)
 Radiation and Indoor Environments APEX Gamma Systems (R&IE APXG)
 Radiation and Indoor Environments Liquid Scintillation Laboratory (R&IE LSL)
Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance
 Lab Automation System (LBAU) (Sample Management System)
Office of Land and Emergency Management
 Field Operations and Records Management System (FORMS II Lite)
Region 1
 Labworks
 New England Samples Tracking System (NESTS)
Region 2
 Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
Region 3
 Relational Lab Information Management System (RLIMS)
Region 4
 Element Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
 Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
Region 7
 Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
Region 8
 Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
Region 10
 Laboratory Management System (RX75)
Electronic information systems with long-term or permanent retention such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability System (CERCLIS) EPA 050 are scheduled separately. Other disposable systems not requiring specific schedules have been categorized into this schedule or one of the other generic or big bucket schedules:
 EPA 0063 - Electronic Models and Expert Systems
 EPA 0089 - Information Tracking Systems
 EPA 0090 - Administrative Support Databases
 EPA 0094 - Electronic Bulletin Boards
 EPA 0096 - Data Standards and Registry Services
 EPA 0098 - Data Marts and Data Warehouses
Electronic records not requiring their own schedules or covered in one of the generic schedules above may be segments or phases of information systems covered by schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following change was made in the 12312015 version:
 Revised the name Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response to Office of Land and Emergency Management in guidance.
The following changes were made in the 06302014 version:
 Deleted cross reference to schedule 0179 which is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
 Revised list of systems covered in guidance.
The following changes were made in the 05312014 version:
 Deleted items a b d and e which are covered by other schedules.
 Revised list of systems covered in guidance.
The following changes were made in the 11302008 version:
 Revised disposition instructions for item c to include to support the related project or activity.
 Revised list of systems covered in guidance.
LIMS was used as a tool to track samples and generate information filed in the related project or program file. The schedule was formerly approved by NARA as N1-412-94-211 for the Lab Automation System (LBAU) (Sample Management System) and has been expanded to include LIMS used throughout the Agency.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0063 EPA 0089 EPA 0090 EPA 0094 EPA 0096 EPA 0098 EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
NC1-412-81-1236 N1-412-94-211
Entry: 07092008
EPA Approval: 04232009
NARA Approval: 07212009