EPA Records Schedule 0095
Status: Final 03312017
Title: Web Sites
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 305 - Public Affairs
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-08-8b (Item b)
 DAA-GRS-2013-0005-0004 (Item c)
 N1-412-08-8d (Item d)
 Varies (Item e)
Description:
The EPA Web site is a resource providing information about EPA providing services to the public or internal employees and contractors and supporting the mission of Agency programs. The Web site is also used to distribute software programs models and textual video sound or image files.
This schedule covers the content on the site and site management documentation and applies to the Internet intranet extranet portals podcasts streaming media and other popular forms of transmission.
Web content records are covered by the applicable records schedules for the functions they support e.g. Web pages related to permits are covered by schedule 1047. If the Web content records are unique and not covered by existing schedules they must be scheduled separately.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: (Reserved)
Item b: Site management and operations
Includes reports statistics procedures and approvals.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-08-8b
 Disposable
 Close inactive records at end of year.
 Destroy 5 years after file closure.
Item c: Log files
Includes unprocessed log files application logs and similar files.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2013-0005-0004
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old.
Item d: Web content - not unique
Includes markup language code textual and audiovisual files contextual hyperlinks and content from backend systems used to generate static or dynamic content on the site(s) as well as screen captures and site snapshots when the record copy is captured elsewhere.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-08-8d
 Disposable
 Destroy when superseded obsolete or no longer needed to conduct Agency business whichever is later but not longer than the retention of the record copy. See EPA 0008 - Nonrecords.
Item e: Web content - unique
Includes markup language code textual and audiovisual files contextual hyperlinks and content from backend systems used to generate static or dynamic content on the site(s) as well as screen captures and site snapshots when the record copy is not captured elsewhere.
NARA Disposal Authority: Varies
 Varies
 Follow the disposition instructions for the applicable records schedule. If not covered by existing schedules contact the National Records Management Program (NRMP) to develop a new one.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Web content
 Web content records documenting EPAs operations decisions and actions that are needed to protect the legal and financial rights of the government and the public must be captured in a recordkeeping system and retained in accordance with the applicable records schedules. If the Web content records are unique and not covered by existing schedules program offices must contact the NRMP to prepare a records schedule. Additional guidance on managing Web records is available at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsfaqswebwikiblogrecords.html.
 Organizations need to pay particular attention to Web content with potential regulatory enforcement or other legal impact as well as events of historical significance (e.g. World Trade Center Hurricane Katrina). For example if an organization is offering guidance to the regulated community it needs to retain a complete record in its recordkeeping system of what that guidance was how long it was posted and URLs referenced by hyperlinks.
 Changes to the Web content records such as major additions or deletions that might affect decisions or actions by the public or regulated community are covered under item d or e. Documentation on minor editorial or non-substantive changes (e.g. correcting typographical errors) may not need to be kept depending upon a risk analysis. More information on assessing records management risks associated with Web sites can be found in NARAs guidance at: http:www.archives.govrecords-mgmtpolicymanaging-web-records.html.
Related schedules - See schedule 0094 for electronic bulletin boards and other collaborative technologies such as blogs and wikis. Records related to procedures on site management are covered by schedule 1006 item b and policies are covered by schedule 1023 item a.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 03312017 version:
 Updated description and guidance.
The following changes were made in the 12312016 version:
 Updated cross references to other schedules in Description and Guidance.
 Deleted item a which is covered by schedule 1012.
 Revised retention for item c - log files from 3 months to 3 years to conform to GRS 3.1 item 020.
The proposed retention meets EPAs administrative needs. Unique Web content that meets the definition of a record and is not covered by an existing schedule will be scheduled separately.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0094 EPA 1006 EPA 1023
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 10291996
EPA Approval: 03262007
NARA Approval: 09102008