EPA Records Schedule 0097
Status: Final 05312015
Title: Central Data Exchange (CDX)
Program: Environmental Information
Applicability: Headquarters
Function: 404 - Technology Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-03-17
Description:
The Central Data Exchange system serves as a single point for receiving compliance reports from industry and government partners and supports integrated cross-media reporting. This allows for the exchange of data electronically including the establishment and management of a common registration process a central archive of electronic transactions and data exchange between external submitters and EPA program offices. CDX also has a role as a central point for the collection and entry of paper- and diskette-based data.
Some of the reports include risk management plans toxic release inventory forms air emissions inventories discharge monitoring reports pretreatment self monitoring reports and RCRA biennial reports.
Includes the Customer Registration Subsystem (CRS) containing information on individuals who have registered and established accounts to access CDX.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: (Reserved)
Item b(1): (Reserved)
Item b(2): (Reserved)
Item c: Electronic data
This item is to be used only by the Office of Environmental Information Central Receiving Branch at Headquarters.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-03-17c
 Disposable
 Keep individual records up to 3 years after completion of action then delete when no longer needed.
Item d: (Reserved)
Item e: (Reserved)
Item f: (Reserved)
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
The CDX is responsible for the receipt authentication archiving (of the transaction and audit trail) and the distribution to the appropriate EPA systems (e.g. Toxics Release Inventory). Once the data passes to the designated system that data is the responsibility of the program office and the systems administrator.
Electronic software program - The electronic software program formerly item a is to be kept as long as needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. NARA regulations require that electronic records be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition and is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Input - Input formerly item b(1) and (2) is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Output and reports - For disposition of output and reports formerly item d refer to the records schedule for the activity supported by the output and reports. Follow the disposition instructions for the applicable records schedule item. If more than one records schedule or item applies follow the disposition instructions with the later dates.
System documentation - System documentation including system development documentation formerly item e refers to those records necessary to document how the system captures manipulates and outputs data. Disposition of system documentation is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Electronic signatures and verification data - Electronic signatures and verification data formerly item f is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Other related schedules for the CROMERR process include the following:
 Test data system logs audit system logs authenticationsecurity logs eAuthentication logs public encryption keys as applicable Certificate Key Management customer retention of inbound node logs NAAS logs e-mail acknowledgements to submitters electronic signature agreements and data archives are covered by EPA 1012 item e.
 Outages and statistics are covered by schedule 1012 item c or d.
Examples of the types of systems included in the CDX are the Emissions Inventory System (EIS) covered by EPA 0002 and the Toxic Release Inventory System (TRI) covered by EPA 0153.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 05312015 version:
 Updated schedule description.
 Deleted items a b(1) and (2) d e and f which are covered by other schedules.
 Updated cross references in guidance.
The following change was made in the 01312009 version:
 Revised guidance and cross references.
The following change was made in the 04302008 version:
 Revised disposition instructions for item b(1).
The following changes were made in the 03312008 version:
 Changed the disposition instructions for items a and b(1).
 Added applicability to disposition items a c e and f.
 Revised title and disposition instructions for item e.
This system will help meet the requirements of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) mandating agencies be prepared to allow electronic reporting. Disposition for all items meet program needs and disposition for item f conforms to General Records Schedule 20 item 1c.
Custodians:
Office of Environmental Information Central Receiving Branch
 Contact:
 Telephone:
Related Schedules:
EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 11232001
EPA Approval: 08262003
NARA Approval: 03242004