EPA Records Schedule 0107
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Employee Performance File System
Program: Personnel
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Human Resources Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 General Records Schedule 123
Description:
Contains documents related to employee performance for non-SES appointees (as defined in 5 USC 4301(2)) and SES appointees (as defined in 5 USC 3132a(2)).
Disposition Instructions:
Item a(1): Appraisals of unacceptable performance - Non-SES appointees
Includes appraisals where a notice of proposed demotion or removal is issued but not effected and all related documents.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123a(1)
 Disposable
 Destroy after the employee completes 1 year of acceptable performance from the date of the written advance notice of proposed removal or reduction-in-grade notice.
Item a(2): Superseded performance records - Non-SES appointees
Includes records superseded through an administrative judicial or quasi-judicial procedure.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123a(2)
 Disposable
 Destroy when superseded.
Item a(3)(a): Latest rating of record 3 years or less - Non-SES appointees
Includes performance-related records pertaining to a former employee including performance plan upon which it is based and any summary rating.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123a(3)(a)
 Disposable
 Place records on left side of the OPF and forward to gaining federal agency upon transfer or to NPRC if employee leaves federal service (see EPA 553). If EPA retrieves an OPF from NPRC these documents are to be retained according to item a(3)(b).
Item a(3)(b): All other performance plans and ratings - Non-SES appointees
Includes performance-related records pertaining to a former employee.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123a(3)(b)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 4 years old.
Item a(4): All other summary performance appraisal records - Non-SES appointees
Includes performance appraisals and job elements and standards upon which they are based.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123a(4)
 Disposable
 Destroy 4 years after date of appraisal.
Item a(5): Supporting documents - Non-SES appointees
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123a(5)
 Disposable
 Destroy 4 years after date of appraisal.
Item b(1): Superseded performance records - SES appointees
Includes records superseded through an administrative judicial or quasi-judicial procedure.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123b(1)
 Disposable
 Destroy when superseded.
Item b(2)(a): Latest rating of record that is less than 5 years old - SES appointees
Includes performance-related records pertaining to a former SES appointee including performance plan upon which it is based and any summary rating.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123b(2)(a)
 Disposable
 Place records on left side of the OPF and forward to gaining federal agency upon transfer or to NPRC if employee leaves federal service (see EPA 553). If EPA retrieves an OPF from NPRC these documents are to be retained according to item b(2)(b).
Item b(2)(b): All other performance ratings and plans - SES appointees
Includes performance-related records pertaining to a former SES appointee.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123b(2)(b)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 5 years old.
Item b(3): All other performance appraisals - SES appointees
Includes job elements and standards (job expectations) upon which they are based excluding those for SES appointees serving on a Presidential appointment (5 CFR 214).
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123b(3)
 Disposable
 Destroy 5 years after date of appraisal.
Item b(4): Supporting documents - SES appointees
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 123b(4)
 Disposable
 Destroy 5 years after date of appraisal.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Performance appraisals from the performance appraisal and recognition system (PARS) are covered by this schedule until the employee leaves the Agency. See the Guide to Personnel Recordkeeping for guidance.
Performance rating appeals are covered under EPA 0563. See EPA 0553 for official personnel folders (OPF) for civilians and EPA 0554 for Public Health Service Corps commissioned personnel.
Reasons for Disposition:
Conforms with NARAs General Records Schedule 1 item 23.
Item c for electronic mail and word processing system copies was deleted 08152006 pursuant to NARA Bulletin 2006-04.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0553 EPA 0554 EPA 0563
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
None
Entry: 11261997
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 12001998