EPA Records Schedule 0152
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Federal Docket Management System (FDMS)
Program: Environmental Information
Applicability: Headquarters
Function: 404 - Technology Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-06-24
Description:
The Federal Docket Management System (FDMS) is a government-wide Web-based portal system providing the public with electronic access to the entire regulatory docket including rules supporting documents and public comments as well as other materials being made available for public review and comment.
FDMS allows the public access to proposed and final rules other agency actions listed in the Federal Register and the ability to submit comments on proposed regulations and any other materials exposed to the public including other comments received. Documents published in the Federal Register are sent to FDMS the same day they are published and then routed to the agency sponsoring the publication. Agencies that have implemented FDMS into their business processes then create a docket for the publication and can receive comments directly from the public on the publication or on any other supporting materials they have posted. Comments received in paper by the agency are scanned and processed through the system by the partner agency. Federal Register publications for agencies that have not yet implemented FDMS will be posted in FDMS but until the agency has implemented FDMS they are unable to include additional supporting materials and they are unable to receive comments through FDMS. Instead comments received are transmitted to the agency in an e-mail from the managing contractor of FDMS. The FDMS application is hosted and managed by EPA however each agency is responsible for its content and has a number of configuration options.
FDMS is capable of electronically receiving and maintaining images and text documents in support of regulatory development related to a federal agencys proposed rules and other agency actions are made available for public review and comment. Each agency owns and manages its data in the system and controls internal access and workflow. The data and images maintained in the docket management module will be for the purposes of public access only for a prescribed length of time. Therefore the official record is the responsibility of the participating agency. It is the responsibility of the participating agency to ensure they retain and disposition (including transfer of permanent records to the National Archives) all record copies of information captured in FDMS according to their approved records schedules.
It is anticipated that the system will also have an eToolbox module to assist with the development review and publication of federal regulations and analysis of public comments. Examples of these tools include electronic reading rooms workflow tools to facilitate or enhance the drafting of a rule data mining tools and dashboard to display the real-time performance of the process.
An additional component is being developed for FDMS to provide for the management of electronic records. Once implemented FDMS will provide participating agencies with functionality that meets the Department of Defense Electronic Records Management Software Application Design Criteria Standard (DoD 5015.2-STD) and can serve as a component of their overall records management program.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Electronic software program
This item is to be used only by the Office of Environmental Information Collection Strategies Division at Headquarters.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-06-24a
 Disposable
 Destroy when no longer needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period.
Item b: Electronic data for participating agency records
This item is to be used only by the Office of Environmental Information Collection Strategies Division at Headquarters.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-06-24b
 Disposable
 Destroy in accordance with each participating agencys approved records schedules.
Item c: E-mail identification and verification data
This item is to be used only by the Office of Environmental Information Collection Strategies Division at Headquarters.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-06-24c
 Disposable
 Destroy after verification.
Item d: System documentation
This item is to be used only by the Office of Environmental Information Collection Strategies Division at Headquarters.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0009
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for schedule 1012.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
EPAs Dockets are covered by schedule 1023.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 03312008 version:
 Changed schedule applicability to Headquarters.
 Added applicability for all disposition items.
 Revised title and disposition instructions for item d.
EPA is the overall managing partner for this system. Participating federal agencies own and manage their own data. EPA retains and disposes of all data in accordance with each participating agencys approved records schedule. EPAs Dockets schedule was approved as N1-412-04-4.
Custodians:
Office of Environmental Information Office of Information Collection Collection Strategies Division
 Contact: Tim Crawford
 Telephone: 202-564-2743
Related Schedules:
EPA 1012 EPA 1023
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
None
Entry: 09062005
EPA Approval: 06052006
NARA Approval: 03052007