EPA Records Schedule 0158
Status: Final 01312017
Title: Fuel Reporting System (DCFuels)
Program: Air
Applicability: Headquarters
Function: 108 - Environmental Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-09-4
Description:
The Fuel Reporting System (DCFuels) includes compliance data related to gasoline diesel fuel and a variety of fuels and fuel additives. The data are collected from refiners importers independent laboratories and fuel and fuel additive manufacturers. DCFuels includes two types of data: (1) Fuel and Fuel Additive Registration (DCFFARS) for registration of companies and products and (2) Reformulated Gasoline and Anti-Dumping Database (RFGAD) for compliance reporting.
DCFFARS data supports the registration of fuels and fuel additive products prior to their introduction into commerce and provides information which protects the public from motor fueladditives which may produce environmental harm.
RFGAD collects data for a variety of activities including averaging banking and trading programs quarterly and annual compliance demonstration and product quality parameters from a variety of submitters. Reporting programs under RFGAD include: Reformulated Gasoline and Anti-Dumping Tier 2 Gasoline Sulfur Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel MSAT Gasoline Toxics RFS and MSAT-2 Gasoline Benzene. The compliance information provides a picture of fuel production and characteristics useful in developing air pollution control strategies and is used to pursue alleged civil and criminal violations.
The EPA Moderated Transaction System (EMTS) is a credit reporting and management system for credit generation purchases sales and use for compliance with regulatory programs. Regulated parties enter credit transaction data into EMTS which moderates transactions between parties and provides integrity to credit markets. The system was brought on line July 2010.
Submissions are currently in paper and electronic electronic submissions are done through EPAs Central Data Exchange (CDX) which is scheduled separately.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: (Reserved)
Item b: (Reserved)
Item c: Electronic data - registration
The Office of Air and Radiation Compliance Division is responsible for the disposition of this item.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-09-4c
 Disposable
 Delete when no longer needed to ensure compliance.
Item d: Electronic data - compliance reporting
The Office of Air and Radiation Compliance Division is responsible for the disposition of this item.
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-09-4d
 Disposable
 Delete 10 years after submission year or when no longer needed for compliance or enforcement whichever is later.
Item e: (Reserved)
Item f: (Reserved)
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in electronic format only and is not media neutral. The format of the permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA and the electronic records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. The electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Electronic software program - The electronic software program formerly item a is to be kept as long as needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 1236.20. NARA regulations require that electronic records be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition. The electronic software program is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Input - Input formerly item b is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Output and reports - For disposition of output and reports formerly item e refer to the records schedule for the activity supported by the output and reports. Follow the disposition instructions for the applicable records schedule item. If more than one records schedule applies follow the disposition instructions with the later dates.
System documentation - System documentation including system development documentation formerly item f refers to those records necessary to document how the system captures manipulates and outputs data. Disposition of system documentation is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
See schedule 0097 for CDX.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 01312017 version:
 Added the EPA Moderated Transaction System (EMTS) to the schedule description.
 Deleted items a b e and f which are covered by other schedules.
 Updated guidance and custodial information.
The following change was made in the 01312009 version:
 Revised minor wording and added cross reference in description.
The following change was made in the 07312008 version:
 Revised description.
The following changes were made in the 05312008 version:
 Added applicability to disposition items a c and e.
 Revised disposition instructions for items b c and e.
 Revised title of disposition item e.
DCFuels supports EPAs efforts to register fuel and fuel additives and ensure compliance with regulations. The retention meets program needs.
Custodians:
Office of Air and Radiation Compliance Division
 Contact: John Weihrauch
 Telephone: 202-343-9477
Related Schedules:
EPA 0097 EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
None
Entry: 10252007
EPA Approval: 01292009
NARA Approval: 06152009