EPA Records Schedule 0300
Status: Final 01312016
Title: PeoplePlus (PPL)
Program: Financial Management
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 402 - Financial Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 Varies
Description:
The PeoplePlus (PPL) system consists of two modules. One module allows for various time and labor functions such as allowing employees to enter time and attendance and managers to approve time. The other module performs leave management functions which includes streamlining the leave request process. All leave types are available for employees to request based on the pay group. Approved leave is automatically loaded into the time card. Supervisors and timekeepers can view leave balances online.
The PPL system interfaces with the Department of Interior (DOI) Interior Business Center (IBC) system Federal Personnel and Payroll System (FPPS) to transmit time and attendance data for payroll formulation. FPPS returns processed payroll data to EPA. This data is posted back to PPL Labor Distribution and subsequently the Agencys core financial system Compass and its storagereporting repository the Compass Data Warehouse.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: (Reserved)
Item b: (Reserved)
Item c: Personnel data
NARA Disposal Authority: Varies
 Varies
 Follow instructions for the specific type of personnel records (e.g. official personnel folders (OPFs)).
Item d: Payroll data
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0020-0002
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for EPA 1005c.
Item e: Time and attendance data
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 27
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for EPA 1005f.
Item f: Leave data
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 26
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for EPA 1005d.
Item g: (Reserved)
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Electronic software program and system documentation - The electronic software program and system documentation formerly item a is to be kept as long as needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. NARA regulations require that electronic records be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition. Disposition of the software and system documentation is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Input - Input formerly item b is covered by schedule 1012 item e.
Output and reports - For disposition of output and reports formerly item g refer to the records schedule for the activity supported by the output and reports. Follow the disposition instructions for the applicable records schedule item. If more than one records schedule or item applies follow the disposition instructions with the later dates.
The Office of the Chief Financial Officer Office of Technology Solutions is responsible for implementing the disposition for the system data. Documentation such as approved work schedules maxiflex work records PeoplePlus time card summary reports and related time and attendance records maintained by other offices are to be maintained in accordance with item e. Documentation related to leave and leave applications including leave transfers requests for restored leave and similar documents maintained by other offices are to be maintained in accordance with item f.
A standardized summary report generated by the Superfund Cost Recovery Package Imaging On-line System (SCORPIOS) serves as EPAs official payroll documentation in support of Superfund and oil spill cost recovery rather than the payroll distribution time sheets used with PeoplePlus. SCORPIOS is scheduled as EPA 0052.
Official leave records prepared upon transfer or separation of employees are filed in the OPF and are covered in EPA 0553 for civilians or EPA 0554 for Public Health Service personnel.
The Compass Financials system (Compass) is scheduled as EPA 0054.
Records are covered by Privacy Act system of records EPA-1.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 12312015 version:
 Deleted items a b and g which are covered by other schedules.
 Updated guidance and contact information.
The following change was made in the 05312013 version:
 Updated guidance about electronic forms and cross references.
The following change was made in the 05312010 version:
 Revised wording of disposition instructions for item a.
The following changes were made in the 04302008 version:
 Revised title of disposition item a.
 Revised disposition instructions for item b.
The system works in conjunction with the Department of Interiors Interior Business Center (IBC) a government-wide payroll provider. Effective June 9 2014 the IBC became responsible for processing the EPA payroll and providing payroll services to EPA.
Custodians:
Office of the Chief Financial Officer Office of Technology Solutions
 Contact: Ida Fairnot
 Telephone: 202-564-4913
Related Schedules:
EPA 0052 EPA 0054 EPA 0553 EPA 0554 EPA 1005 EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 04082002
EPA Approval: 06122006
NARA Approval: Varies