EPA Records Schedule 0444
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Industrial Facilities Discharge (IFD) File
Program: Water
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 108 - Environmental Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 N1-412-95-46
Description:
The Industrial Facilities Discharge (IFD) File is a database of industrial point source dischargers to surface waters in the United States. There are three basic kinds of information:
 Facility - Includes site identification codes and summary effluent discharge.
 Discharge - Includes the components of individual discharges including location flow and Standard Industrial Code (SIC). Nearly half of the direct dischargers tracked are POTWs (publicly-owned treatment works). Also includes indirect dischargers - industrial flows from industries that discharge to other facilities such as POTWs rather than directly to surface waters.
 Superfund sites on the National Priority List - Includes location name State and county codes latitudelongitude coordinates Reach number and the mileage offset within the reach.
Information is derived from several sources including the Permit Compliance System (PCS) the Needs Survey database and EPA regional offices states and local agencies. The File can be used for regulatory impact analyses best available technology studies regulation development and special projects. It can be linked to other databases such as PCS and STORET as well as outside databases such as CETIS (Complex Effluent Toxicity Information System).
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Electronic software program
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-95-46a
 Disposable
 Delete when superseded by routine software updates and quality assurance check completed or when no longer needed.
Item b: Input
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0009
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for schedule 1012.
Item c: Electronic data
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-95-46c
 Disposable
 Delete when superseded or no longer needed.
Item d: Output and reports
NARA Disposal Authority: Varies
 Varies
 File with related records and follow instructions for related records.
Item e: Supporting documentation
NARA Disposal Authority: N1-412-95-46e
 Disposable
 Maintain most current version and destroy when system is discontinued.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
See EPA 0405 for the Needs Survey. The Storage and Retrieval Water Quality Data Base (STORET) is covered in EPA 0400 and The Waterbody System (WBS) in EPA 0446.
Reasons for Disposition:
Records support operations of Office of Wetlands Oceans and Watersheds as required by statute and regulation. Database consists of data extracted from other EPA databases already scheduled for permanent retention. It is a subset of the Permit Compliance System (PCS) for industrial permittees only with some publicly available information added.
Custodians:
Office of Water Office of Wetlands Oceans and Watersheds Assessment and Watershed Protection Division
 Contact:
 Telephone:
Related Schedules:
EPA 0400 EPA 0405 EPA 0446 EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 01081993
EPA Approval: 07141995
NARA Approval: 06121998