EPA Records Schedule 0559
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Position Classification Files
Program: Personnel
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Human Resources Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 General Records Schedule 17
Description:
Consists of records relating to classification of positions within the organization.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a(1): Position classification standards files
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17a
 Disposable
 Destroy when superseded or obsolete.
Item a(2)(a): Case file
Includes correspondence and other records relating to the development of standards for classification of positions peculiar to EPA and OPM approval or disapproval.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17a(2)(a)
 Disposable
 Destroy 5 years after position is abolished or description is superseded.
Item a(2)(b): Review file
Includes correspondence and other records relating to the development of standards for classification of positions peculiar to EPA and OPM approval or disapproval.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17a(2)(b)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 2 years old.
Item b: Position descriptions
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17b
 Disposable
 Destroy 2 years after position is abolished or description is superseded.
Item c(1): Survey files - Classification survey reports
Includes reports on various positions prepared by classification specialists including periodic reports.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17c(1)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old or 2 years after regular inspection whichever is sooner.
Item c(2): Survey files - Inspection audit and survey files
Includes correspondence reports and other records relating to inspections surveys desk audits and evaluations.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17c(2)
 Disposable
 Destroy when obsolete or superseded.
Item d(1): Appeals files - Case files relating to classification appeals excluding OPM classification certificate
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17d(1)
 Disposable
 Destroy 3 years after case is closed.
Item d(2): Appeals files - Certificates of classification issued by OPM
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 17d(2)
 Disposable
 Destroy after affected position is abolished or superseded.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Reasons for Disposition:
Disposition conforms to NARAs General Records Schedule 1 item 7.
Item e for electronic mail and word processing system copies deleted 08222006 pursuant to NARA Bulletin 2006-04.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
NC-412-75-46 NC1-412-85-289
Entry: 07271993
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 04002003