EPA Records Schedule 0569
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Federal Workplace Drug Testing Program Files
Program: Personnel
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Human Resources Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 General Records Schedule 136
Description:
Includes drug testing program records created under Executive Order 12564 and Public Law 100-71 Section 503 (101 Stat. 468).
Excludes: Consolidated statistical and narrative reports concerning the operation of agency programs including annual reports to Congress as required by Pub. L. 100-71 503(f).
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Drug test plans and procedures
Excludes documents that are filed in record sets of formal issuances (directives procedures handbooks operating manuals and the like).
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136a
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old or when superseded or obsolete.
Item b: Forms completed by employees whose positions are designated sensitive for drug testing purposes acknowledging that they have received notice that they may be tested
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136b
 Disposable
 Destroy when employee separates from testing-designated position.
Item c: Selection and scheduling records
Includes records relating to the selection of specific employees and applicants for testing and the scheduling of tests including lists of selectees notification letters and testing schedules.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136c
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old.
Item d(1): Permanent record books
Includes bound books containing identifying data on each specimen recorded at each collection site in the order in which the specimens were collected.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136d(1)
 Disposable
 Destroy 3 years after date of last entry.
Item d(2): Chain of custody records
Includes forms and other records used to maintain control and accountability of specimens from the point of collection to the final disposition of the specimen.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136d(2)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old.
Item e(1)(a): Positive test results for employees
Includes records documenting individual test results including reports of testing notifications of employees and applicants and employing offices and documents relating to follow-up testing.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136e(1)(a)
 Disposable
 Destroy when employee leaves the Agency or when 3 years old whichever is later.
Item e(1)(b): Positive test results for applicants not accepted for employment
Includes records documenting individual test results including reports of testing notifications of employeesapplicants and employing offices and documents relating to follow-up testing.
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136e(1)(b)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old.
Item e(2): Negative test results
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 136e(2)
 Disposable
 Destroy when 3 years old.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Disciplinary action case files pertaining to actions taken against employees for drug use drug possession failure to comply with drug testing procedures and similar matters are covered in EPA 0564. See EPA 0546 for personnel counseling files related to the alcohol and drug abuse program.
Reasons for Disposition:
Disposition conforms to NARAs General Records Schedule item 136.
Item f for electronic mail and word processing system copies deleted 08232006 pursuant to NARA Bulletin 2006-04.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0546 EPA 0564
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 07012003
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 04002003