EPA Records Schedule 0577
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Labor Management Relations Records
Program: Personnel
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Human Resources Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 General Records Schedule 128
Description:
Consists of labor management relations general and case files including correspondence memoranda reports and other records relating to the relationship between management and employee unions or other groups.
Also includes labor arbitration general and case files including correspondence forms and background papers relating to labor arbitration cases.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a(1): Labor management relations general and case files for the office negotiating the agreement
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 128a(1)
 Disposable
 Destroy 5 years after expiration of agreement.
Item a(2): Labor management relations general and case files for other offices
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 128a(2)
 Disposable
 Destroy when superseded or obsolete.
Item b: Labor arbitration general and case files
NARA Disposal Authority: General Records Schedule 128b
 Disposable
 Destroy 5 years after final resolution of case.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Reasons for Disposition:
Conforms to NARAs General Records Schedule 1 item 28.
Item c for electronic mail and word processing system copies deleted 08232006 pursuant to NARA Bulletin 2006-04.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Entry: 01271994
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 12001998