EPA Records Schedule 0742
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Enterprise Content Management System (ECMS)
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 404 - Technology Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 Varies
Description:
The Enterprise Content Management System (ECMS) is a software application used to capture categorize store retrieve and disposition EPAs unstructured information. The software is commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) customized to meet the Agencys business needs. The first phase of implementation currently underway is the management of e-mail records. Future phases of implementation include the management of other records Web content documents and workflows.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Electronic software program
The Office of Environmental Information Collection Strategies Division at Headquarters is responsible for the disposition of this item.
 Disposable
 Destroy when no longer needed to ensure access to and use of the electronic records throughout the authorized retention period.
Item b: Source data
The office entering the data is responsible for the disposition of this item.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0009
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for schedule 1012.
Item c: System data
The ECMS project management office the National Records Management Program and the Records Liaison Officers are responsible for the disposition of this item.
NARA Disposal Authority: Varies
 Varies
 File with related records and follow instructions for the related records.
Item d: Reports
The ECMS project management office the National Records Management Program and the Records Liaison Officers are responsible for the disposition of this item.
NARA Disposal Authority: Varies
 Disposable
 File with related records and follow instructions for the related records.
Item e: System documentation
The Office of Environmental Information Collection Strategies Division is responsible for the disposition of this item.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0009
 Disposable
 Follow instructions for schedule 1012.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
The ECMS project management office in the Office of Environmental Information Office of Information Collection Collection Strategies Division is responsible for maintaining the software application. The National Records Management Program manages the retention policies and Agency-wide file structure and creates records holds on records subject to litigation. Records Liaison Officers manage event-based retentions implement records holds and maintain their organizational file structures.
Records related to operation of the system and IT customer service files such as help desk logs and reports are covered by schedule 1012. ECMS retains and dispositions RLO reports (both auto-generated and manually run) copies that are exported from the system may be destroyed when no longer needed.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 11302008 version:
 Changed program and applicability to All Programs Agency-wide.
The following change was made in the 04302008 version:
 Revised disposition instructions for item e.
Retention policies for records maintained in ECMS are based on EPAs approved records schedules.
Custodians:
Office of Environmental Information Information Collection Division Collection Strategies Division
 Contact: Mike Sutton
 Telephone: 202-566-1287
Related Schedules:
EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
None
Entry: 09052007
EPA Approval: 08222008
NARA Approval: Varies