EPA Records Schedule 1001
Status: Final 12312013
Title: Safety and Health
Program: Safety and Health
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 401 - Administrative Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2012-0002-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2012-0002-0002 (Item b)
Description:
This schedule covers records related to the activities to establish and develop internal safety health and environmental management program policies management and administrative systems program models and operating policies that address the mission-oriented activities throughout the Agency at Agency offices laboratories field sites research vessels and diving operations. Includes records related to the evaluation of working conditions and resolving occupational and environmental risks and hazards including strategies to reduce the Agencys internal use of chemicals and its volume of hazardous waste. Also includes records related to on-site investigations audits and program evaluations of current space as well as new construction renovation lease and closure plans to determine compliance with statutory and regulatory mandates development and monitoring of corrective actions and managing the wellness center health unit and activities of the labormanagement inspection team.
Excludes: records contained in the employee medical folder and medical monitoring records.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Property safety inspections
Includes but is not limited to:
 Reports of surveys and inspections of government-owned facilities conducted to ensure adequacy of protective and preventive measures taken against hazards of fire explosion and accidents and
 Safety inspections for EPA real and personal property.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2012-0002-0001
 Disposable
 Close after sale release or disposal of property.
 Destroy 7 years after file closure.
Item b: Other safety and health records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Health and safety training
 Industrial hygiene files
 Reports and related records concerning investigations of fires explosions and accidents consisting of retained copies when the original reports are submitted for review and filing in other agencies or organizational elements and reports and related records concerning occurrences of such a minor nature that they are settled locally without referral to other organizational elements and
 Safety standards and practices including safe location design layout equipment and construction of Agency facilities and other areas requiring safety standards.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2012-0002-0002
 Disposable
 Close at end of calendar year or when superseded or obsolete.
 Destroy 5 years after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Medical monitoring records - Medical exposure and monitoring records previously covered by schedule 0584 will be scheduled separately. The employee medical folder is covered by schedule 0566.
Reasons for Disposition:
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0566 EPA 0584
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1001_Safety_and_health_crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 03232011
EPA Approval: 07092012
NARA Approval: 12052012