EPA Records Schedule 1003
Status: Final 04302017
Title: Grants and Other Program Support Agreements
Program: All Programs with exceptions
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 205 - Federal Financial Assistance
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0008-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0008-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-GRS-2013-0008-0006 (Item c)
Description:
This schedule covers records of activities related to management and oversight of grants and other program support agreements with other federal state or local government agencies universities nonprofit organizations tribes and other institutions that support EPAs environmental programs.
Excludes: Superfund and oil spill site-specific grants and final deliverables and reports.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Waste water construction and state revolving fund grants
Includes: records related to the administration of waste water construction and state revolving fund grants to states municipalities inter-municipal or interstate agencies for the construction of publicly owned treatment works including documentation of significant actions and decisions justifications cost estimates scopes of work correspondence applications pre-award reviews funding decisions award documentation commitment notices audit records status reports requests for deviations from established assistance policies and procedures submitted by award officials and related records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0008-0001
 Disposable
 Close upon closeout of the agreement.
 Destroy 20 years after file closure.
Item b: Other grants and program support agreements
Includes all grants except waste water construction and state revolving fund grants covered by item a above and Superfund and oil-spill site-specific grants covered by schedule 1036.
Includes but is not limited to:
 Grant and other agreement oversight records including correspondence reports policies and procedures and other documentation related to post-award monitoring evaluation disputes audits and other oversight records
 Grant appeals consisting of notices of appeal and any requests for reconsideration appeal file documents and exhibits correspondence legal briefs statements memoranda transcripts of any hearings held orders and decisions and related documents and
 Grants and other program support agreements such as assistance agreements cooperative agreements interagency agreements agreements for guest workers and other types of agreements administered by headquarters or other EPA offices and that provide for research demonstration projects training fellowships investigations surveys studies or other types of program support activities support documentation such as documentation of significant actions and decisions announcements and solicitations of funding opportunities justifications requests and justifications for the non-competitive award of agreements cost estimates scopes of work correspondence applications pre-award reviews funding decisions award documentation evaluations of proposals and applications conflict of interest documentation requests for deviations from established assistance policies and procedures submitted by award officials and related records (excluding Superfund and oil spill site-specific records).
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0008-0002
 Disposable
 Close upon closeout of the agreement or when action is completed.
 Destroy 10 years after file closure.
Item c: Unsuccessful grant applications
Includes: unsuccessful grant application files including applications proposals correspondence and other records related to unsuccessful (e.g. rejected withdrawn not selected for award under a competition) applications and unsolicited proposals that are not accepted for award.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2013-0008-0006
 Disposable
 Close after rejection or withdrawal.
 Destroy 3 years after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Agreement closeout  Agreement closeout is when EPA determines all administrative actions and required work is completed (submission of the final expenditure report) or when the agreement is terminated or annulled and any disputes settled. Final closeout documentation may consist of an internal EPA memo. In the case of treatment works which are privatized (Executive Order 12803 dated April 30 1992) documentation needs to be maintained until grant money is repaid or it is determined that no repayment is due.
Record copies:
 The Grants Administrator (also called the Grants Management Officer) Grant Project Officer and Financial Management Officer are responsible for the record copies of grant records and implementing the disposition. Records may include unique program files maintained by the grant project officer or client or technical representative and documentation relating to the assistance agreement competitions. All other copies may be destroyed when no longer needed.
 Examples of records kept by the Grants Management Officer (Grants Specialist) include: applications reviews and amendments related to the application administrative review checklist certifications agreements and any amendments award documentation including documentation supporting the decision to make an award requests for deviations stop work orders documentation relating to termination actions disputes and appeals annulments and audits legal opinions increases and decreases correspondence and other related documents.
 Examples of records kept by the Program Office (Project Officer) include: documents used for day-to-day technical assistance for the grant or interagency agreement such as draft and final products and deliverables work plans and progress reports draft documents and comments provided or other records of technical direction copies of applications awards amendments and other administrative and financial documents documentation related to the competition of assistance agreements including announcements correspondence with applicants evaluation and selection documentation and other documents related to the selection or non-selection of applications for award of an agreement and documents related to requests and justifications for the non-competitive award of assistance agreements and disputes.
 Examples of records kept by the Financial Management Officer include: reimbursement requests payment vouchers payment files federal cash transaction reports copies of financial status report and other related documents.
 Grants Specialists and Grants Management Officers should maintain a record of all evaluative on-site visits andor desk review protocols and reports in the official project files.
 The GMOs receive final certification of project completion from project officers. The GMOs are responsible for requesting final audits if applicable and required for closeout.
 The office issuing the decision on a grant appeal is the office responsible for maintaining the record copy.
EPA Policy on Compliance Review and Monitoring -See EPA Order 5700.6 - Policy on Compliance Review and Monitoring for additional information on EPAs post-award grant policies and procedures.
Audits appeals and other kinds of legal actions - Grants and agreements that are being audited appealed or in any other kind of legal action cannot be destroyed until the case is closed.
Superfund and oil spill site-specific grants - This schedule covers all grants except site-specific grants and other program support agreements for Superfund and oil spills which are covered by schedule 1036.
Final deliverables and reports  Copies of significant final deliverables and reports for grants related to EPAs environmental missions (except for Superfund and oil site-specific final deliverables and reports covered by schedule 1036) are covered by schedule 1035 item a and transferred to the National Archives according to the disposition instructions. If collections of final deliverables and reports are administrative in nature not related to EPAs environmental missions and are maintained separately from the grant files they are covered by schedule 1006 item b.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 04302017 version:
 Removed references to Brownfields grants as exceptions in item b and guidance.
The following change was made in the 07312016 version:
 Revised guidance on final deliverables and reports.
The following change was made in the 05312015 version:
 Added with exceptions to Program and added exceptions to item b.
The following change was made in the 12312014 version:
 Updated disposition authority number for item c to conform to revised General Records Schedule.
The following changes were made in the 12312013 version:
 Moved from draft status to final.
 Added NARA approval date.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 1006 EPA 1035 EPA 1036
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1003_Grants_crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 09122012
EPA Approval: 04112013
NARA Approval: 09182013