EPA Records Schedule 1004
Status: Final 11302016
Title: Acquisitions and Contracts
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 405 - Supply Chain Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0014-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0014-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-0412-2013-0014-0004 (Item d)
 DAA-0412-2013-0014-0005 (Item e)
Description:
This schedule covers records of activities related to management and oversight of the acquisition of goods and services.
Excludes: Superfund Brownfields and oil spill site-specific acquisitions and contracts and final deliverables and reports.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: FAIR records protests disputes and appeals
Includes but is not limited to:
 Protests disputes appeals written memoranda of arguments legal briefs (if any filed) transcripts of any hearings held correspondence decisions and related records and
 Federal Activities Inventory Reform (FAIR) Act records documenting the implementation of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-76 Performance of Commercial Activities including inventories reviews consultations summary reports commercial activity codes challenges appeals decisions planning documents public announcements accountability statements cost calculations and performance measures.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0014-0001
 Disposable
 Close when action is completed or contract is completed or terminated.
 Destroy 10 years after file closure or if filed with related records (e.g. the contract) destroy with the related records whichever is later.
Item b: Routine acquisitions and contracts
Includes but is not limited to:
 Administrative reports and data relating to procurement operations
 Canceled solicitations for formal solicitations of offers to provide products or services that were canceled prior to award of a contract including invitations for bids requests for proposals (RFPs) requests for quotations (RFQs) presolicitation documentation on the requirement any offers that were opened prior to the cancellation documentation on any government action up to the time of cancellation and evidence of cancellation
 Contract management records for program related procurements (e.g. environmental modeling) as well as administrative procurements (e.g. guard services) and maintained by contracting officers (COs) and contracting officers representatives (CORs) including correspondence and other documents related to the award administration receipt inspection payment review and audit of contracts (excludes Superfund Brownfields and oil spill site-specific contracts covered by schedule 1036)
 Data submitted to the Federal Procurement Data System (FPDS) (Note: Applies to electronic records only but does not cover data in the FPDS which is scheduled by GSA)
 Routine procurement files documenting the acquisition of goods and non-personal services (e.g. printing services) maintained by the procurement organization including purchase documents such as purchase requisitions travel and training authorizations credit card and bank card slips direct deposit forms for vendors specifications bids schedules of delivery initiating requisitions records of receipt inspection and payment and
 Solicited bids and proposals when filed separately from the contract files.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0014-0002
 Disposable
 Close when activity completed or contract is completed or terminated.
 Destroy 6 years after file closure.
Item c: (Reserved)
Item d: Short term acquisitions records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Contractors payrolls submitted under construction contracts in accordance with Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR 5.5(a)(3)) with related certifications anti-kickback affidavits and other related records
 Purchase card logs and supporting documentation and
 Small and disadvantaged business utilization records including correspondence reports studies goal statements and related records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0014-0004
 Disposable
 Close after contract completion unless contract performance is the subject of an enforcement action on that date or when no longer needed for current agency business or at end of fiscal year.
 Destroy 3 years after file closure.
Item e: Other acquisitions records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Bids and proposals that are both unsolicited and the subject of no further agency action
 Lists or card files of acceptable bidders and
 Other copies of routine procurement files used by component elements of a procurement office for administrative purposes including documents pertaining to the contractor as described in FAR 4.801(c)(3).
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0014-0005
 Disposable
 Close when superseded or obsolete or no longer needed for current agency business.
 Destroy after file closure.
Item f: (Reserved)
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
FAIR records - FAIR records maintained by offices other than the Office of Administration and Resources Management are covered by schedule 1006 item b.
Successful bids and proposals - Successful bids and proposals are filed with the related contract records and follow the disposition instructions for the related contracts.
Purchase cards - Employees making purchases using the U.S. Government Purchase Card system are responsible for maintaining the documentation according to the disposition instructions for item b.
Site-specific acquisitions and contracts - Records related to Superfund Brownfields and oil spill site-specific funding or payment require special handling and are covered by schedule 1036. Contracts that are not site specific are covered by this schedule. The contract-level COR is responsible for determining whether the contract is covered by this schedule or the site-specific schedule.
Final deliverables and reports - Copies of significant final deliverables and reports for contracts related to EPAs environmental missions (except for Superfund Brownfields and oil site-specific final deliverables and reports covered by schedule 1036) are covered by item a of schedule 1035 and transferred to the National Archives according to the disposition instructions. If collections of final deliverables and reports for contracts are administrative in nature not related to EPAs environmental missions and are maintained separately from the contract files they are covered by schedule 1006 item b.
Unopened bids for canceled solicitations - Unopened bids for canceled solicitations (formerly item f) should be returned to the bidder.
Contracting officers and CORs - Contracting officers and CORs should work together to determine who is responsible for maintaining specific documents to minimize duplication while still providing an adequate audit trail. The following are general guidelines:
 Contracting Officer (CO) - Record copy of RFPs successful bids and proposals contract and modifications copies of financial and payment documents contract specifications drawings or manuals incorporated into the contract by reference performance evaluations technical and financial progress reports statements of work (SOWs) and level of effort (LOE) documents COR designations notices to proceed stop work or correct deficiencies and related documents.
 Contract-level COR - Supporting documentation of performance evaluations technical and financial progress reports invoices and invoice approvals.
 Other CORs - Record copy of documents used for day-to-day technical direction of the task order or work assignment. Documents include work plans and schedules amendments andor modifications draft deliverables submitted by the contractor comments provided to the contractor or other records of technical direction contract monitoring logs and communication records cost estimates meeting records and notes evaluation forms supporting documentation for statements of work (SOWs) and level of effort (LOE) documents amendments and modifications invoices and invoice approvals.
Contract completion - A contract is complete after final payment for the overall contract is made or the contract is terminated.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 11302016 version:
 Moved unsolicited bids and proposals from item b to item e to conform to GRS 1.1.
 Added note to item b regarding data submitted to the Federal Procurement Data System to conform to GRS 1.1.
 Corrected statement in guidance about purchase card documentation for employees making purchases.
The following change was made in the 07312016 version:
 Revised guidance on final deliverables and reports.
The following changes were made in the 02292016 version to conform to NARA General Records Schedule (GRS) transmittal 24 and the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) 4.805 issued December 4 2015:
 Revised item a.
 Deleted item c and combined with item b revised item b instructions.
 Revised item d and combined some bullets with item b.
 Removed obligation copies which was rescinded from item e.
The following change was made in the 03312015 version:
 Added guidelines for records maintenance by COs and CORs.
The following change was made in the 01312015 version:
 Deleted item f for unopened bids for canceled solicitations due to revision of NARAs General Records Schedule transmittal 23.
The following change was made in the 01312014 version:
 Revised wording for simplified acquisition threshold and construction contracts in items b and d.
The following changes were made in the 12312013 version:
 Moved from draft status to final.
 Added NARA approval date.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 1006 EPA 1035 EPA 1036
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1004_Acquisitions_crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 10252012
EPA Approval: 07092012
NARA Approval: 09182013