EPA Records Schedule 1016
Status: Final 11302016
Title: Controls and Oversight
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 301 - Controls and Oversight
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0015-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0015-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-0412-2013-0015-0003 (Item c)
 DAA-0412-2013-0015-0004 (Item d)
 DAA-0412-2013-0015-0005 (Item e)
Description:
This schedule covers records related to operations and programs of the EPA and its external business partners that ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and prevent waste fraud and abuse. Includes: corrective action and the enforcement of activities to remedy internal or external programs that have been found noncompliant with a given law regulation or policy program evaluation and the analysis of internal and external program effectiveness and the determination of corrective actions as necessary criminal civil and administrative investigative files that document major criminal investigations as well as investigations of known or alleged fraud abuse irregularities and violations of laws and regulations involving EPA personnel programs or operations administered or financed by EPA including contractors and others having a relationship with EPA and program monitoring and the data gathering activities required to determine the effectiveness of internal and external programs and the extent to which they comply with related laws regulations and policies.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Historically significant controls and oversight records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Audit Resolution Board case files
 Inspector General (IG) investigative case files for cases that document major violations of criminal law or ethical standards by EPA officials and others
 IG semiannual reports prepared for submission to Congress and
 Unusually significant IG case files such as those that result in national media attention congressional investigation or substantive changes in Agency policy and procedure.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0015-0001
 Permanent
 Close when audit resolution is completed when investigation is closed or when report is sent to Congress.
 Transfer electronic records to the National Archives 5 years after file closure. Transfer non-electronic records to the National Archives 15 years after file closure.
Item b: Long-term controls and oversight records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Good laboratory practice (GLP) and audit report files for audits of laboratories involved in performing studies and analyses of EPAs environmental programs including inspector worksheets supporting documentation correspondence and related records and
 IG investigative case files for cases that document investigations of known or alleged fraud abuse irregularities and violations of laws and regulations involving EPA personnel programs or operations administered or financed by EPA including contractors and others having a relationship with EPA and excluding cases covered by item a.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0015-0002
 Disposable
 Close when audit is complete or case is closed.
 Destroy 20 years after file closure.
Item c: Routine controls and oversight records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Administrative documentation related to the audit resolution process
 Audit case file final reports and work papers maintained by the headquarters IG or other auditing organization
 IG hotline files including complaints correspondence with responsible officials synopses of cases and monthly and periodic workload and trend reports
 IG or other auditing organization management assessment reviews and program evaluations of the auditing organizations procedures or programs for economy efficiency and compliance with policies and professional standards
 Laboratory performance evaluation studies proficiency testing (PT) records relating to how well laboratories perform including studies performance evaluation reports performance summaries statistical reports method-specific studies and related records
 Responses to audits evaluations and investigations maintained by the office being investigated evaluated or audited conducted internally (e.g. by IG) or externally (e.g. by Government Accountability Office) and that may be initiated by EPA an outside agency with oversight over EPA or requested by Congress and records related to the Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) and
 State and other entity relations and oversight files including records used to oversee programs operated in lieu of a federal program.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0015-0003
 Disposable
 Close when case is closed or activity or report is completed or superseded.
 Destroy 10 years after file closure.
Item d: Short-term controls and oversight records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Animal welfare records including Lab Animal Project Reviews (LAPR) letters of assurance Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Minutes Semi-Annual Facility and Program Inspections and reports to the Institutional Official Department of Agriculture Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare and Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Animal Care.
 IG audit case files and copies of the IGs semiannual report maintained by offices other than the headquarters IG
 IG complaint files containing information or allegations that are of an investigative nature but do not relate to a specific investigation including anonymous or vague allegations not warranting an investigation matters referred to constituents or other agencies for handling
 Laboratory activity reports and associated field stations showing program activity
 Program and program activity evaluation reports and working papers
 Reports clearance case files maintained for each Agency report created or proposed such as public use reports including clearance forms copies of authorizing directives preparation instructions and documents relating to the evaluation continuation revision and discontinuance of reporting requirements
 Regional oversight and coordination records generated by headquarters program offices when conducting oversight of regional program operations including implementation reports inspections correspondence reviews and comments on regional program activities
 State territories and interstate group file containing records related to environmental improvement and pollution control by states and state combines including lists and descriptions of political leaders reports on participation in EPA programs EPA regional reports and evaluations extracts from the Congressional Record special studies and reports state legislative activity reports and reports on and by special commissions and citizen groups and
 Suspension and debarment files related to the suspension and debarment of entities and individuals subject to debarment regulations including IG reports attorney recommendations for actions notifications to respondents respondents submissions hearing transcripts briefs and motions final determinations and settlement agreements.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0015-0004
 Disposable
 Close when case is closed or activity or report is completed.
 Destroy 5 years after file closure.
Item e: Ombudsman and citizen complaint files
Includes but is not limited to: requests for information or assistance with complaints or problems arising from EPA regulations or whistle-blower information on regulatory infractions or issues consisting of phone notes referrals letters copies of case log forms action notes or other related records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0015-0005
 Disposable
 Close when case is completed or closed.
 Destroy 1 year after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
FMFIA documentation - Program offices are responsible for retaining the record copy of FMFIA documentation according to the disposition instructions for item c. Internal control coordinators are not responsible for keeping the documentation only a certification that it exists. All other copies may be destroyed as nonrecords (schedule 0008 item a) when no longer needed.
Responses to evaluations and audits - Responding offices are responsible for retaining the responses to evaluations and audits including records of Agency directives and guidance created by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and other offices according to the disposition instructions for item c. Copies provided to internal control coordinators and audit liaisons should be kept as reference material and can be destroyed as nonrecords (schedule 0008 item a) when superseded.
Oversight records - The headquarters or regional office responsible for oversight of states or other entities is responsible for retaining the record copy according to the disposition instructions for item c. The headquarters office responsible for conducting oversight of regional activities is responsible for retaining the record copy according to the disposition instructions for item d. All other copies can be destroyed as nonrecords (schedule 0008 item a) when superseded or no longer needed. Congressional correspondence related to congressional oversight of EPA activities is covered by schedule 1051.
Ombudsman records - The record copy of ombudsman records is retained by the Ombudsman office or the office performing the ombudsman function. Ombudsman referrals to specific site or facility records are to be filed in the community relations files specific to the site or facility (e.g. 1035 for Superfund site-specific records) and are covered by the disposition instructions for the site-specific records.
Copies of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives - The copy of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives (previously scheduled as schedule 0658a(3) 0701a(3)) maintained by the submitting office until they are notified by NARA that the transfer is successful is a nonrecord (schedule 0008 item a) and can be deleted when no longer needed.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following change was made in the 11302016 version:
 Revised wording in item d for suspension and debarment files to entitles and individuals subject to debarment regulations.
The following changes were made to the 07312015 version:
 Moved from draft to final.
 Added NARA approval date.
The following changes were made to the 09302014 version:
 Moved suspension and debarment records from item c to item d.
 Added animal welfare records to item d.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0008 EPA 1036 EPA 1051
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1016_Controls_and_Oversight_crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 09122012
EPA Approval: 08192013
NARA Approval: 03262015