EPA Records Schedule 1021
Status: Final 07312017
Title: Planning and Resource Allocation
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 304 - Planning and Resource Allocation
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0006-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0006-0002 (Item b)
Description:
This schedule covers records related to planning and resource allocation activities determining strategic direction identifying and establishing programs and processes allocating resources (capital and labor) among those programs and processes and developing environmental and administrative policies and programs. Includes: budget formulation activities undertaken to determine priorities for future spending and to develop an itemized forecast of future funding and expenditures during a targeted period of time and the collection and use of performance information to assess the effectiveness of programs and develop budget priorities capital planning processes for ensuring that appropriate investments are selected for capital expenditures strategic planning activities to determine annual and long-term goals and the identification of the best approach for achieving those goals and workforce planning processes for identifying the workforce competencies required to meet EPAs strategic goals and for developing the strategies to meet these requirements.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Historically significant planning and resource allocation records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Annual headquarters operating guidance paper and regional guidance plan covering the objectives of EPA the priority and strategy for their attainment
 Management studies including staffing analyses of administrative policies and procedures manpower surveys organization and methods surveys and studies management improvement and related records
 Organizational plans related to the establishment and organization of EPA missions functions and functional statements organizational charts and delegations of authority
 Program development files documenting the development of environmental programs program priorities and objectives program evaluation and planning major shifts in the focus of existing programs new initiatives and similar records and
 Program policy planning records including formulating policies and plans in areas which cross-cut program functions and records related to developing and analyzing key policy and legislative issues impacting on environmental programs.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0006-0001
 Permanent
 Close upon completion of activity project or topic or at the end of the fiscal year.
 Transfer electronic records to the National Archives 5 years after file closure. Transfer non-electronic records to the National Archives 15 years after file closure.
Item b: Routine planning and resource allocation records
Includes but is not limited to: Agency program plans review files including headquarters and regional office program plans goals and requests for changes to the plans regional guidance reports and revisions and related records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0006-0002
 Disposable
 Close at the end of the fiscal year.
 Destroy 10 years after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral  This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Related records
 IT planning - records related to planning for information and technology management including enterprise architecture records are covered by schedule 1012.
 Budget working papers - Budget working papers that are created and maintained as part of the budget formulation process for submission to the Office of Management and Budget are covered by schedule 1005 item a. Copies of budget working papers may also be maintained as part of the records covered by this schedule and if so follow the disposition instructions for item a if the activities support EPAs environmental missions and item b if the activities are administrative in nature.
Copies of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives - The copy of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives (previously scheduled as EPA 0105a(3) EPA 0106a(3) EPA 0145a(3) EPA 0190a(3) and EPA 0194a(3)) maintained by the submitting office until they are notified by NARA that the transfer is successful is a nonrecord (EPA 0008 item a) and can be deleted when no longer needed.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following change was made in the 07312017 version:
 Updated guidance to include budget working papers.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0008 EPA 1012
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1021_Planning_Crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 09122012
EPA Approval: 08122013
NARA Approval: 01302015