EPA Records Schedule 1022
Status: Final 04302017
Title: Public Affairs
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 305 - Public Affairs
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0007-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0007-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-0412-2013-0007-0003 (Item c)
 DAA-GRS-2016-0005-0003 (Item d)
 DAA-GRS-2016-0005-0004 (Item e)
Description:
This schedule covers records related to the exchange of information and communication between the federal government citizens and stakeholders in direct support of citizen services public policy andor national interest. Includes official information dissemination to provide information to external stakeholders through the use of various types of media such as video paper web etc. tech transfer and training providing targeted information to specific stakeholders on technical or scientific topics or that provide a specific type of training related to Agency responsibilities public information and outreach providing general information to the public either through ongoing services or in response to specific requests activities to operate Agency libraries providing traditional library functions such as access to journals periodicals literature searches and online library subscriptions and all other activities providing public information education and outreach to the public and Agency stakeholders including support by the Agency of education programs or subjects relevant to the Agencys mission.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Historically significant public affairs records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Environmental training materials including course plans and manuals
 Final manuscripts of articles related to EPAs environmental missions
 Presidential and other significant environmental awards to organizations states and other entities youth groups private citizens students and other individuals
 Public awareness and official dissemination products such as press or news releases fact sheets briefings and briefing books
 Public hearings used as a forum for public involvement including public notice of hearing hearing transcript and related documents and
 Publications and promotional items depicting EPAs environmental mission activities including manuals handbooks brochures newsletters pamphlets posters buttons bumper stickers and similar items.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0007-0001
 Permanent
 Close upon issuance or publication or when superseded or inactive.
 Transfer electronic records to the National Archives 5 years after file closure. Transfer non-electronic records to the National Archives 15 years after file closure.
Item b: Routine public affairs records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Communications and distribution plans
 Final manuscripts of articles not related to EPAs environmental activities
 Publications and promotional items not depicting EPAs environmental activities and
 Speeches of EPA employees other than senior officials.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0007-0002
 Disposable
 Close at end of activity or calendar year.
 Destroy 5 years after file closure.
Item c: Short-term public affairs records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Background and working papers
 Library program files including policies procedures statistics holdings information and related records (excluding library contract records)
 Records related to the participation or sponsorship of EPA staff in professional associations societies and related groups including conference literature trip reports meeting agendas and arrangements evaluations copies of papers and other materials collected during participation
 Routine documentation for environmental awards
 Public affairs-related routine operational records including the day-to-day administration of public affairs activities such as logistics planning and correspondence records for routine conferences and events correspondence and records on speakers and speaking engagements including biographies and case files and databases of public comments related to public affairs activities and
 Routine audiovisual records including photographs or audiovisual recordings of routine award ceremonies retirement ceremonies social events and activities not related to the mission of the Agency as well as production files or similar files that document origin development acquisition use and ownership of temporary audiovisual records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0007-0003
 Disposable
 Close at end of calendar year or when no longer needed for current agency business.
 Destroy 3 years after file closure.
Item d: Public affairs product production files
Includes but is not limited to records related to developing speeches publications educational materials audiovisual materials including posters public conferences and other public outreach materials including news clippings marketing research copies of records used for reference in preparing products research notes printers galleys drafts and working copies preparatory or preliminary artwork or graphics bibliographies checklists and indexes of agency publications and releases clearances related to release of products.
Excludes: Final products such as speeches of senior officials covered by schedule 1051 publications educational materials agency histories mission-related audiovisual materials including posters conference and public outreach materials which are covered by item a of this schedule working papers or files that propose and evaluate options for alternatives and their implications in the development of high-level policies and decisions or that document findings or support recommendations which are covered by schedule1023.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0005-0003
 Disposable
 Close when no longer needed for business use.
 Destroy immediately after file closure.
Item e: Routine media relations records
Includes but is not limited to records of interactions with the press or media that contain duplicate minimal or limited distribution such as requests and responses for interviews requests and responses for information or assistance for media stories daily or spot news recordings or videos available to local radio and TV stations notices or announcements of media events public service announcements and copies of articles created by the agency for publication in news media.
Excludes: transcripts of press conferences or press briefings briefing books and press releases which are covered by item a of this schedule and schedule 1051.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0005-0004
 Disposable
 Close when no longer needed for business use.
 Destroy immediately after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral  This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Recordkeeping responsibility  If materials are forwarded to higher level offices for inclusion in products created for wide distribution the higher level office is responsible for maintaining and implementing the disposition instructions. All other offices may destroy copies of the forwarded materials as nonrecords in accordance with schedule 0008 when no longer needed for current Agency business. The record copy of publications and EPA-sponsored training materials is maintained by the program office with the responsibility for publication and course development. All other copies including attendee copies of training materials can be destroyed when no longer needed or superseded in accordance with schedule 0008. If materials are translated into languages other than English a copy of each translation must be placed in the recordkeeping system. Copies of public affairs records incorporated into other files (e.g. site or facility files) are to be retained according to the disposition instructions for the records they support. Copies kept for distribution purposes may be destroyed when no longer needed in accordance with schedule 0008.
Cited sources  Copies of published material cited in a manuscript or report do not need to be included as part of the official record if they are publicly available. If the cited material is available on a website the citation must include the specific website address (e.g. http:www.epa.gov...) and the date the material was accessed. If however the website material is critical to support the decision conclusion recommendation or guidance provided in the manuscript or report the material must be filed in the recordkeeping system with the manuscript or report if possible.
Related records - Employee training records are covered by schedule 1029 and copies of employee training records maintained at the supervisory level are covered by schedule 0122. Contract management records are covered by schedule 1004. Records of senior officials including speeches are covered by schedule 1051. Working papers or files tht propose and evaluate options for alternatives and their implications in the development of high-level policies and decisions are covered by schedule 1023.
Copies incorporated into other files  Copies of records (e.g. final manuscripts related to environmental projects) are retained according to the disposition instructions for the records they support.
Copies of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives - The copy of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives (previously scheduled as EPA 081a(3) EPA 140a(3) EPA 200c(3) EPA 230a(3) EPA 250a(3) EPA 334a(3) and EPA 533a(3)) maintained by the submitting office until they are notified by NARA that the transfer is successful is a nonrecord (schedule 0008 item a) and can be deleted when no longer needed.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 04302017 version:
 Added bullets to item c to conform to GRS 6.4 transmittal no. 27 issued January 2017..
 Added items d and e to conform to GRS 6.4 transmittal no. 27 issued January 2017.
 Updated cross references.
The following changes were made in the 11302015 version:
 Replaced incorrect guidance and cross references with correct version.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0008 EPA 0122 EPA 1004 EPA 1006 EPA 1023 EPA 1029 EPA 1051
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1022_Public_Affairs_Crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 03062012
EPA Approval: 08212013
NARA Approval: 08142014