EPA Records Schedule 1024
Status: Final 02292016
Title: Federal Advisory Committee Records
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 316 - Applied Research and Science Support
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0003 (Item c)
 DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0004 (Item d)
 DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0005 (Item e)
 DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0006 (Item f)
Description:
This schedule covers Federal records created or received by Federal advisory committees and their subgroups pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) of 1972 (5 U.S.C. Appendix as amended) and records related to the management of these committees by their sponsoring agencies or departments.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Substantive committee records
Includes records that document the establishment and formation of committees and their significant actions and decisions including:
 Records related to the establishment of the committee including charters (original renewal re-establishment and amended) enacting legislation explanation of committee need (when required) filing letters to Congress organization charts committee specific bylaws standard operating procedures or guidelines any other materials that document the organization and functions of the committee and its components
 Records related to committee membership including memos or similar documentation of how andor why individual members were selected membership balance plans membership rosters appointment letters and all sub-categories of appointment letters such as renewals thank you letters etc. resignation or termination letters
 Records of committee meetings and hearings including agency heads determination that a meeting or a portion of a meeting may be closed to the public agendas materials presented to or prepared by or for the committee such as briefing books background materials reports (including drafts) and presentations meeting minutes public comments testimony received during hearings transcripts of meetings and hearings (Note: if transcripts do not exist audiovisual recordings are permanent under item b)
 Records related to committee findings and recommendations including one copy each of final reports memoranda letters to agency studies and pamphlets produced by or for the committee responses from agency to committee regarding recommendations committee presentations or briefings of findings
 Records created by committee members including correspondence documenting discussions decisions or actions related to the work of the committee (excluding administrative or logistical matters) electronic mail exchanged between one or more committee members andor agency committee staff (such as the Designated Federal Officer (DFO)
 Records related to research collected or created by the committee including records relating to research studies and other projects unpublished studies reports and research materials (may include electronic data) raw data files created in connection with research studies and other projects where the information has been consolidated or aggregated for analyses reports or studies
 Documentation of advisory committee subcommittees (i.e. working groups or other subgroups) including records relating to the formation of the subcommittee or working group if they exist decision documents membership statement of purpose or other documentation of duties and responsibilities
 Records that document the activities of subcommittees that support their reports and recommendations to the chartered or parent committee including but not limited to meeting minutes transcripts reports briefing materials substantive correspondence including electronic mail exchanged between one or more subcommittee members any other party that involves the work of the subcommittee andor agency committee staff (such as the DFO) and background materials
 Records related to committee termination (i.e. email letter memo etc.) and
 Other records documenting decisions discussions or actions related to the work of a committee including information on committee websites not captured elsewhere in committee records.
Excludes records of committees whose sole purpose is grant review which are covered by item c.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0001
 Permanent
 Close when records are 15 years old or upon termination of committee whichever is sooner.
 Transfer to the National Archives after file closure.
Item b: Substantive audiovisual records
Includes records that document significant actions and decisions of committees including audiotapes videotapes andor other recordings of meetings and hearings if not fully transcribed (i.e. word-for-word transcriptions) captioned formal and informal analog or digital photographs and any related finding aids of committee members and staff meetings or hearings and posters (2 copies) produced by or for the committee.
Excludes records of committees whose sole purpose is grant review which are covered by item c.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0002
 Permanent
 Close when records are 3 years old or upon termination of committee whichever is sooner.
 Transfer to the National Archives after file closure.
Item c: Grant review committee records
Includes records that document committee establishment membership and meeting records related to FACA committees whose only activity is review of grant proposals including digital and analog recordings of meetings photographs posters and other audiovisual materials. Note: If the committee performs additional functions or activities other than review for grants it should apply the items for all other FACA committee records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0003
 Disposable
 Close upon termination of committee.
 Destroy after file closure.
Item d: Committee accountability records
Includes records that document financial and ethics accountability such as records documenting financial expenditures associated with the functioning of the committee (e.g. travel costs committee member payments meeting room costs contractor costs Federal Register notice costs) and financial disclosure and conflict of interest documents.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0004
 Disposable
 Close at end of calendar year.
 Destroy 6 years after file closure.
Item e: Nonsubstantive committee records
Includes records related to specific committees that are of an administrative nature or are duplicative of information maintained elsewhere including:
 Drafts and copies of Federal Register notices
 Audiotapes and videotapes of committee meetings and hearings that have been fully transcribed (i.e. word-for-word transcriptions) or that were created explicitly for the purpose of creating detailed meeting minutes (once the minutes are created)
 Photographs of committee social functions routine award events and other nonmission-related activities
 Records relating to logistical or administrative aspects of committee meetings and activities such as meeting location and access phone line or internet connections IT support concerns etc.
 Routine correspondence including correspondence (intra-agency with committee members or the public) regarding logistics (e.g. agenda planning meeting arrangements administrative issues) and public requests for information
 Nonsubstantive committee membership records including resumes curriculum vitae or biographical information for individuals who are considered or nominated for a committee but are never appointed or invited to serve on a committee member credentials (resumes or biographies) member files (personnel-type records) and
 Nonsubstantive web content.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0005
 Disposable
 Close when 3 years old or upon termination of the committee whichever is sooner.
 Destroy after file closure.
Item f: Committee management records
Includes records created andor maintained by Committee Management Officers (CMOs) and their staff related to the overall management of committees for an agency and may pertain to specific committees or to the committee management function in general including:
 Charter and membership documentation including a set of filed charters for each advisory committee and membership lists for each advisory committee and subcommittee
 Annual comprehensive review including copies of the information provided as the agencys portion of the annual comprehensive review of Federal advisory committees prepared according to 41 CFR 102-3.175(b)
 Agency guidelines including guidelines maintained and updated on committee management operations and procedures and
 Closed meeting determinations to close or partially close advisory committee meetings required by 41 CFR 102-3.105.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2015-0001-0006
 Disposable
 Close when 3 years old 3 years after submission of report or 3 years after superseded or obsolete as appropriate.
 Destroy after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral  This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Recordkeeping copy - The sponsoring agency is responsible for designating the recordkeeping copy of permanent committee records. Only one copy of the records should be the official recordkeeping copy that is transferred to NARA. Committee records are to be arranged by committee not by the type of record (e.g. NARA should not receive a collection of charters for multiple committees original charters should be transferred with the other permanent records related to the committee regardless of where they are maintained. When transferring permanent FACA records to NARA complete the Checklist for Preparing Records for Transfer to NARA under GRS 6.2 Federal Advisory Committee Records and include it with the records. The form can be found on NARAs website at: http:www.archives.govrecords-mgmtgrsgrs06-2-transfer-checklist.docx. The requirement to transfer permanent records to the National Archives is in addition to the requirement to transfer copies of selected documents to the Library of Congress.
Copies of FACA committee records - Copies of FACA committee records not maintained by the sponsor or secretariat are considered reference copies and are covered by schedule 0008 Nonrecords.
Other committee records - Other committee records are covered by:
 Intra-agency and internal committees: 1006 Administrative Management item b
 Quality and Information Council (QIC): 1012 Information and Technology Management item a
 Rulemaking committees: 1023 Regulatory Development and Implementation and Dockets item a (substantial rulemaking records) and item b (nonsubstantial rulemaking records)
 CIO committees: 1012 Information and Technology Management item b
Reasons for Disposition:
All FACA-related schedules (0180 0181) were combined into this schedule and revised to conform to GRS 6.2 issued August 2015.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0008
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
GRS 262 GRS 264 NC-412-76-76 NC1-412-78-29 NC1-412-78-51 NC1-412-85-412 NC1-412-85-635 and 36 NC1-412-85-1113 NC1-412-85-2450 N1-412-94-227 and 28
Entry: 11022015
EPA Approval: 01282016
NARA Approval: 08062015