EPA Records Schedule 1025
Status: Final 03312015
Title: Legal Services
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 317 - Legal Services
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0016-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0016-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-0412-2013-0016-0003 (Item c)
Description:
This schedule covers records related to providing legal advice and support for the Agencys business. Includes: legal support for EPAs rules and policies case-by-case decisions (such as permits and response actions) and legislation legal representation in court challenges to Agency decisions (such as regulations) appeals of enforcement cases Supreme Court litigation and cases related to EPAs day-to-day operations including entering into contracts awarding grants managing property and money and working with EPA employees. It also includes legal advice to EPA and articulation of the Agencys legal positions in the federal courts and before other tribunals and organizations.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Historically significant legal services records
Includes: legal interpretation and opinions related to the intent and application of environmental laws and regulations excluding the background material (item b).
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0016-0001
 Permanent
 Close upon the expiration amendment or revision of an act or regulation.
 Transfer electronic records to the National Archives 5 years after file closure. Transfer non-electronic records to the National Archives 15 years after file closure.
Item b: Other legal services records
Includes but is not limited to:
 Background material for legal interpretation and opinions related to the intent and application of environmental laws and regulations
 Board of Contract Appeals cases consisting of copies of the appeal filed with the Department of Interior Board of Contract Appeals written memoranda of legal arguments (if any filed) relevant documents relating to disputed contractual issues contracting officers final decision briefs motions and pleadings
 Environmental alternative dispute resolution (ADR) program case files held by ADR program staff or other EPA employees serving as a neutral third party related to the use of ADR in matters affecting public health and the environment that involve parties outside of the Agency such as regulatory matters permits remediation of Superfund sites closure of treatment storage and delivery facilities National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) decisions controversies stemming from Environmental Justice concerns and other matters of importance to EPA and other parties
 EPA personnel law files consisting of records related to discrimination labor relations adverse employee actions and labor standards appeals or complaints
 General Accountability Office (GAO) contract bid protest cases consisting of copies of contract protests filed with the GAO written memoranda of legal arguments (if any filed) statement of EPA contracting officer relevant documents related to the protest contract award or other contracting actions the protest file the Agency reports and related records
 General legal records including records related to such matters as contracts appropriations real property claims files consisting of records related to considerations and settlement of claims by and against the U.S. such as tort claims employees claims waivers of claims claim collection actions and similar records
 Information law and intellectual property records including patents copyrights data rights and interpretations under contracts grants and cooperative agreements awarded by EPA records involving EPAs rights to use patented inventions and copyrighted material licensing of EPA inventions disclosures of inventions made under grants contracts and by EPA employees lists and copies of issued EPA-owned U.S. patents and
 Litigation involving EPA and documenting the nature course and outcome of defensive litigation involving EPA and related to EPAs environmental laws and regulations matters outside of EPAs specific environmental regulatory statutes (e.g. Freedom of Information Act Endangered Species Act contracts personnel federal tort claims etc.) as well as cases where the government brings suit on a matter outside of EPAs regulatory area (e.g. someone owes the government money) including court pleadings and orders opinions depositions interrogatories transcripts affidavits exhibits documents related to discovery and evidence and other records relied on to make the case.
Excludes: Confidential ADR case files (item c) records related to an EPA action that uses ADR held by EPA staff other than Agency employees serving as an ADR neutral and ADR records for matters involving citizen complaints and employee relations (see Guidance).
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0016-0002
 Disposable
 Close upon final action decision or resolution or completion of the case or program.
 Destroy 10 years after file closure.
Item c: ADR confidential case records
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0016-0003
 Disposable
 Close after ADR is discontinued.
 Destroy 1 year after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral  This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Board of Contract Appeals and GAO contract bid protest case files - Case files maintained by the Office of General Counsel (OGC) in Cincinnati and RTP are also covered by this schedule.
Contract source selection information - Restrictions related to source selection information can be found in the Federal Acquisition Regulations FAR 3.104.
ADR held by EPA staff other than Agency employees serving as an ADR neutral - Records related to an EPA action that uses ADR held by EPA staff other than Agency employees serving as an ADR neutral are retained according to the disposition instructions for the records of the actions they support e.g. permits enforcement cases grants etc. See schedule 1016 for ombudsman and citizen complaint files and schedule 0051 for ADR files related to employee relations.
Other related records schedules - EPA enforcement actions (not defensive cases) are covered by schedule 1044 except for Superfund Brownfields and oil site-specific cases which are covered by schedule 1036.
Copies of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives - The copy of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives (previously scheduled as schedule 0674a(3)) maintained by the submitting office until they are notified by NARA that the transfer is successful is a nonrecord (schedule 0008 item a) and can be deleted when no longer needed.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 03312015 version:
 Moved from draft to final.
 Added NARA approval date.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0008 EPA 0051 EPA 1016 EPA 1036 EPA 1044
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1025_Legal_Services_Crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 07122012
EPA Approval: 08092013
NARA Approval: 03082015