EPA Records Schedule 1029
Status: Final 04302017
Title: Employee Training Records
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 403 - Employee Development and Performance Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0003 (Item c)
 DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0004 (Item d)
 DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0005 (Item e)
Description:
This schedule covers records about designing developing and implementing employee training within EPA that is not mission-related. Typically such training is routine or mandatory and covers general knowledge and actions all agencies expect of employees such as training on information security anti-harassment ethics Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) compliance drug-free workplace records management and travel card use. In other words training on administrative activities. Includes documentation of employee training provided from any source (internally or externally via private vendors or other agencies) and applies to all groups of Federal workers civilian military and contractors.
Excludes specialized training for firearms health and safety national defense political appointees or mission-specific training which may document EPAs program objectives or illustrate program operations and financial records related to the purchase of training or travel for training.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Employee training program records
Includes: records about planning assessing managing and evaluating EPAs training program including plans reports and program evaluations organizational and occupational needs assessments employee skill assessments employee training statistics notices about training opportunities schedules or courses mandatory training tracking and reporting files logistics and coordination documents Authorization Agreement and Certification of Training (SF-182) and similar records registration forms employee attendance records syllabi presentations instructor guides handbooks and lesson plans reference and working files on course content other course materials such as presentations and videos and student class or instructor evaluations.
Excludes ethics training covered by item b.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0001
 Disposable
 Close at end of calendar year or when superseded or obsolete whichever is appropriate.
 Destroy 3 years after file closure.
Item b: Ethics training records
Includes: administration of new employee ethics orientation annual and other types of ethics training EPAs annual written plans notices about training requirements and course offerings rosters of employees required to attend and verification of training completed and instructor guides handbooks handouts and other materials.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0002
 Disposable
 Close at end of calendar year or when superseded whichever is later.
 Destroy 6 years after file closure or immediately after supersession.
Item c: Individual employee training records
Includes: records documenting training required by all or most Federal agencies such as information system security and anti-harassment training and training to develop job skills including completion certificates or verification documents for mandatory training required of all Federal employees or specific groups of employees (e.g. supervisors contractors) Individual Development Plans (IDPs) and mentoring and coaching agreements.
Excludes: academic transcripts professional licenses civil service exams or documentation of mission-related training.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0003
 Disposable
 Close when superseded or at end of calendar year or after employee separates whichever comes first.
 If superseded destroy immediately after file closure. If closed at end of calendar year destroy 3 years after file closure. If separated destroy 1 year after separation.
Item d: Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program (SESCDP)
Includes: Office of Personnel Management (OPM) approved training program designed to develop employees with strong executive potential to qualify them for and authorize their initial career appointment in the Senior Executive Service (SES) including program records documenting program scope policies planning budget and curriculum planning.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0004
 Disposable
 Close when no longer needed for business use.
 Destroy immediately after file closure.
Item e: SESCDP case records on participants
Includes: records documenting training developmental assignments mentor agreements and evaluations and SES Development Plans.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-GRS-2016-0014-0005
 Disposable
 Close upon certification by OPMs Qualifications Review Board (QRB) or after separation from SESCDP.
 If certified destroy immediately after file closure. If separated destroy 1 year after file closure.
Guidance:
Media neutral  This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Related records - Financial records related to the purchase of training or travel for training are covered by schedule 1004 item b. Health and safety training is covered by schedule 1001 item b. Training records related to EPAs environmental mission are covered by schedule 1022 item a.
Reasons for Disposition:
This schedule conforms to NARAs General Records Schedule 2.6 transmittal no. 27 issued January 2017 and replaces schedule 0571.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 1001 EPA 1004 EPA 1022
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
GRS 129
Entry: 03152017
EPA Approval: Not applicable
NARA Approval: 01012017