This schedule is in draft. It may not be used to retire or destroy records. If you have any questions, please contact the Records Help Desk.

EPA Records Schedule 1036
Status: Draft, 07/31/2017

Title: Environmental Programs and Projects - Site-Specific

Program: All Programs

Applicability: Agency-wide

Function: 108 - Environmental Management

NARA Disposal Authority:

Pending (Item a)
Pending (Item b)
Pending (Item c)
Pending (Item d)
Pending (Item f)
Pending (Item g)
Pending (Item h)
Description:

This schedule covers program and project records for EPA's missions to monitor the environment, determine proper environmental standards and address environmental hazards and contamination. This includes Superfund Remedial, Superfund Emergency Response and Removal, Federal Facilities Response, Superfund Enforcement, Base Realignment and Closure, Federal Facilities Enforcement, Targeted Brownfields Assessments (TBA), Oil Spills, Formerly Used Defense Sites (FUDS), and Superfund Alternative Approach (SAA) site-specific activities. Activities include site and area evaluation and cleanup for formally designated sites or areas that suffer significant environmental degradation, usually from historic industrial pollution; removals to prevent, reduce, or mitigate threats to humans posed by releases or potential releases of hazardous pollutants in emergency and nonemergency situations of a time-critical nature; and, cleanup of contaminated land to return it to beneficial use.

Disposition Instructions:

Item a: Historically significant site-specific records (See Guidance for explanation.)

Includes Superfund, Oil Spills, Tribal land (where EPA is the lead), Formerly Used Defense Sites on the National Priorities List (NPL), and Federal Facilities.

Includes, but is not limited to:

Administrative Records (ARs) (if maintained separately from the site file) compiled and made available to the public as the basis for selected Superfund response actions including action memoranda, administrative orders, applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements (ARARs), community relations plans (CRPs), consent orders, correspondence, fact sheets, natural resource trustee information, news clippings, pollution reports (POLREPs), potentially responsible party (PRP) letters, preliminary assessment/site inspection, proposed and approved remedial action, public comments on the development of the AR, records of decision (RODs), remedial investigation (RI)/feasibility studies (FS), site reports, technical assistance documentation, technical issue papers, work plans, AR index, and similar records;
Federal agency hazardous waste compliance site files (if maintained separately from the site file), including records related to hazardous waste sites at Federal facilities that have been submitted under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) including ARARs, CRPs, concurrence memoranda and reports, delisting and other types of correspondence, endangerment and risk assessments, financial and technical progress reports, hazardous ranking system (HRS) packages, health and safety plans, meeting notes, NPL determination, POLREPs, preliminary assessments (PAs), public meeting notes, proposed plans for selected remedial action, RCRA closure, post closure and compliance reports, remedial design and remedial action (RD/RA ) reports, RI/FS reports, summaries of sampling and analysis data, site assessments (SA), statements of work (SOsW) and site-specific contract documentation, work plans, and similar records;
Landmark cases (See Guidance for explanation.) referred to the Office of Regional Counsel (ORC) or other offices with enforcement authority for Superfund site-specific enforcement actions (if maintained separately from the site file) including administrative and judicial cost recovery settlements, administrative orders, attorney work products, case summaries, compliance status documents, consent decrees, Department of Justice (DOJ) referral packages, discovery and litigation support documents, Federal facility agreements, injunctive relief actions, judicial settlements and orders, natural resource damage actions, notices and pleadings, RI/FS special notices, State and other agency enforcement records, subpoenas, 10-point settlement memos, witness lists, and similar records;
Remedial site files relating to activities conducted at remedial sites by EPA and non-EPA lead entities, including pre-ROD records, post ROD records, operation and maintenance records, and NPL deletion packages including ARARs, Congressional inquiries, construction completion packages, contract documentation, correspondence, CRPs, endangerment and risk assessments, health and safety plans, inspection reports, monitoring agreements, operation and maintenance plans, pre-ROD review package, project operations plans (POPs), proposed plans for selected remedial action, PRP searches and investigations, quality assurance project plans (QAPPs), RD/RA documents, responsiveness summaries, RI/FS reports, RODs and ROD delegation documents, summaries of sampling and analysis data (excluding raw sampling data covered in item g), site close out and NPL deletion packages, State concurrence letters, and similar records; and
Removal site files relating to emergency, time-critical and non-time-critical removal activities conducted by EPA and non-EPA lead entities (e.g., PRPs, State, Federal facilities) including contract documentation (e.g., SOW), correspondence, financial and technical progress reports, POLREPs, QAPPs, removal response records, summaries of sampling and analysis data, work plans, and similar records.
NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Permanent
Close remedial site-specific records when deleted from the NPL. Close landmark cases when case is completed. Close all others when archived (See Guidance for explanation of archived status.) in the Superfund Enterprise Management System (SEMS).
Transfer to the National Archives 30 years after file closure.
Item b: Site assessment records

Includes, but is not limited to, site-specific records related to sites which were investigated for listing on the NPL and TBAs, including no further remedial action planned sites (NFRAPS), sites placed on the NPL, sites warranting a removal action, sites not yet assigned to the NPL or NFRAP, or Brownfields. (Use item a for final site assessment reports for sites placed on the NPL.)

NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Disposable
Close upon remediation determination. If final remediation decision has not been made, review every 5 years. Records may be stored under a "Contingent Temporary" status until a decision is made and the appropriate disposition is assigned. File records for NPL and removal sites with the related site file (item a).
Destroy 40 years after file closure.
Item c: Long-term site-specific records

Includes, but is not limited to:

Administrative decision records allowing PRPs to petition the Fund for reimbursement, including the 106(b) petitions, the Preliminary and Final Decision Document, comments, and related records;
Claims against the Fund documenting the decisions made by headquarters and regional personnel concerning claims against the Fund, including claims filed against the Fund under mixed funding agreements (preauthorization, cashouts, mixed work);
Contract and grant management records needed for cost recovery (if maintained separately from the site file);
Cost recovery records including compilations of documentation that describe technical aspects of the response action and cost accounting information necessary to document the costs incurred to implement the response action;
Enforcement actions that are routine or require no legal action (if maintained separately from the site file);
Final deliverables and reports (if maintained separately from the site file);
Local government reimbursement program records, including general information and cost documentation on the release, the application for reimbursement, records of reimbursement, and rejected and accepted applications; and
Oil spill site-specific records relating to emergency, time-critical and non-time-critical removal activities conducted by EPA and non-EPA lead (e.g., PRP, State, Federal facilities) in response to an oil spill.
NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Disposable
Close when activity, project, or topic is completed.
Destroy 30 years after file closure.
Item d: Formerly used defense sites (FUDS)

Includes FUDS, also known as the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program, administered by the Army Corps of Engineers, in cooperation with EPA, States, Tribes and other entities, and Tribal lands where the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or other agency is the lead. (if EPA becomes the lead agency, or sites are placed on the NPL, use item a.)

Includes, but is not limited to, sampling and assessment of contaminated areas, characterization of site conditions, determination of the nature and extent of contamination, selection of response actions, cleanup and closeout of sites, correspondence, and similar records.

NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Disposable
Close when EPA concurs with notification of no further action from Corps of Engineers.
Destroy 20 years after file closure.
Item e: (Reserved)

Item f: Financial and State assurance documents

NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Disposable
Close when related records are destroyed or transferred to the National Archives, or when expired or terminated.
Destroy after file closure or return to submitter.
Item g: Superfund sampling and analytical raw data

NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Disposable
Close upon completion of data review and validation for the sample set.
Destroy when 75 years old.
Item h: Grants - not needed for cost recovery

Includes site-specific grants and other program agreements not needed for Superfund cost recovery.

NARA Disposal Authority: Pending
Disposable
Close after closeout of the agreement.
Destroy 10 years after file closure.
Guidance:

Media neutral - This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However, if the format (e.g., electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA, the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g., imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g., Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water), the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10, 1236.12, 1236.14, and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g., software, input, output, system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012, Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236, see "Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA" on the EPA records intranet site.

Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions, records containing sensitive information (e.g., confidential business information (CBI), personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.

Historically significant site-specific records - The title for item a is not intended to imply the use of any selection criteria other than the series description provided. It only infers the permanent records of the site-specific process as they relate to other items that are described as non-permanent in the remainder of the schedule.

Closure of permanent site-specific records (item a) - Due to the nature of Superfund site-specific remediation activities and post clean up operations and maintenance, the length of time between the creation of the case file and its closure can be many decades. Additionally, some case files may be re-opened even after they have been archived in the Superfund Enterprise Management System (SEMS) or removed from the NPL. EPA offices should strictly follow file closure instructions after all outstanding actions have taken place as the National Archives will not accept active records.

Confidential Unclassified Information (CUI) - CUI contained in permanent records with eventual transfer to the National Archives must be examined to identify any documents that are still under CUI categories prior to the transfer of legal custody. Information about the documents and their particular restrictions are to accompany the transfer documentation that is provided to the National Archives. The National Archives may, or may not, honor certain of the restriction categories that are outside of the standard Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) exemptions.

Related records

The Superfund Enterprise Management System (SEMS) which contains electronic versions of many Superfund site-specific records is covered by schedule 0755. SEMS is a successor to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Information System (CERCLIS), and other legacy systems, and is designed to maintain and produce information on all aspects of hazardous waste sites, including site data for all NPL sites.The Superfund Program Implementation Manual (SPIM) designates core documents from Superfund site files that are digitized and stored in the system. SEMS consists of database files and scanned hardcopy records saved in PDF format, as well as born-electronic office automation files (e.g., Word, Excel, etc.) that are later converted to PDF. SEMS is the electronic recordkeeping system for Superfund site-specific records, although some legacy sites were not scanned and remain in hardcopy format.
The Superfund Cost Recovery Package Imaging and On-Line System (SCORPIOS) is scheduled as EPA 0052.
Program accomplishments, statistical and other summary information are permanent records and covered by schedule 1021, item a.
Superfund site-specific grants and agreements that are part of the remedial or removal site file, or are filed separately and needed for cost recovery are covered by this schedule; all other grants are covered by schedule 1003.
Permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives - The copy of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives (e.g., previously scheduled as EPA 0013a(3), EPA 0014a(3), EPA 0019a(3), EPA 0025b(3), EPA 0480a(3)) maintained by the submitting office until they are notified by NARA that the transfer is successful is a nonrecord (EPA 0008, item a) and can be deleted when no longer needed.

Cited sources – Copies of published material cited in a report, study or similar records, do not need to be included as part of the official records if they are publicly available. If the cited material is available on a website, the citation must include the specific website address (e.g., http://www.epa.gov...) and the date the material was accessed. If, however, the website material is critical to support the decision, conclusion, recommendation, or guidance provided in the record, the material must be filed in the recordkeeping system with the record, if possible.

Administrative Records – CERCLA requires that the lead agency establish an AR and make it available to the public at a central location at or near the site. The AR documents the decision-making process and public participation in the cleanup process. Documents referenced in the AR but not physically located in it (e.g., guidance documents located in a guidance compendium) need to have the same retention as the AR. Otherwise, the document must be included in the AR. The designated regional Superfund Administrative Record Coordinator is responsible for maintaining and implementing the disposition of the record copy. Repository copies should be disposed of upon authority of the AR Coordinator. All other copies held in any other office are reference copies and may be destroyed when no longer needed.

Contracts – Contracts for Superfund that are not site-specific are covered by schedule 1004. Determination of whether a contract is covered by this schedule or schedule 1004 is made by the Contract-level contracting officer’s representative (COR). Contracting officers and CORs should work together to determine who is responsible for maintaining specific documents to minimize duplication while still providing an adequate audit trail. Examples of records maintained by the Contracting Officer include requests for proposals (RFPs); successful bids and proposals; contract and modifications; copies of financial and payment documents; contract specifications, drawings or manuals incorporated into the contract by reference; performance evaluations; technical and financial reports; statements of work (SOWs) and level of effort (LOE) documents; project officer and contract monitor determinations; notices to proceed, stop work or correct deficiencies; and related documents. Examples of records maintained by the contract-level COR include performance evaluations; technical and financial progress reports; invoices and invoice approvals. Examples of records maintained by the work assignment COR include documents used for day-to-day technical direction of the task order or work assignment, including work plans and schedules; draft deliverables submitted by the contractor; comments provided to the contractor or other records of technical direction; contract monitoring logs and communication records; meeting records and notes; evaluation forms; supporting documents for SOWs and LOE documents; amendments; modifications; invoices and invoice approvals. Contracts that are being audited or in any other kind of legal action may not be destroyed until the case is closed.

Grants and other program support agreements – Agreement closeout is when the Agency determines all administrative actions and required work at the site is completed (submission of the final expenditure report, SF 269 – Financial Status Report, by the recipient), or when the agreement is terminated or annulled and any disputes settled. Final closeout may consist only of an internal Agency memo. Grants and agreements that are being audited, appealed, or in any other kind of legal action may not be destroyed until the case is closed. Examples of records maintained by the Grants Management Office (GMO) (Grants Specialist) include the applications; reviews and amendments related to the application; administrative review checklist; certifications; agreements and any amendments; award documentation; requests for deviations; stop work orders; documentation relating to termination actions, disputes and appeals, annulments and audits; legal opinions; reimbursement requests; payment vouchers; financial status reports; increases and decreases; correspondence; and other related documents. Examples of records maintained by the Program Office (Project Officer) include documents used for day-to-day technical direction of the grant or agreement such as draft and final products and deliverables; work plans and progress reports; draft documents and comments provided or other records of technical direction. Copies of these records may be filed with the site files for historical purposes or with cost recovery records.

Contract and grant closeout – In order to assure that the records are available to EPA when needed for cost recovery and in order to save EPA access costs and the contractor or grantee storage costs, it is recommended that all Superfund-related contracts and grants be amended to have contractors and grantees turn over all records upon closeout to the EPA in a format acceptable to the Federal Records Centers (FRCs). The records can then be retired directly to the FRC and retrieved when needed for any audits, cost recovery, or litigation without fear that the contractor or grantee has dissolved or has inadvertently disposed of the records. An Agency records liaison officer should be contacted for the latest guidance on preparing records for the FRCs.

Retention for recipients of agreements and contracts - Recipients of CERCLA cooperative agreements and Superfund State Contract awards must maintain all records for 10 years following submission of the final Financial Status Report unless otherwise directed by the EPA award official, and must obtain written approval from the EPA award official before destroying any records (40 CFR 35.6705). Recipients of CERCLA Technical Assistance Grants must maintain records generally for three years (40 CFR 35.4105). For other assistance awards, recipients of awards must maintain records generally for three years (40 CFR 30.501 and 31.42). The Corps of Engineers as a Federal government entity is exempted from this policy.

Site assessment records – Site assessment records for sites placed on the NPL become part of the remedial site file and should be transferred to the office or unit responsible for the remedial site file. Records for removal actions should be transferred to the office or unit responsible for the removal site files. In cases where the determination has not been made, the records remain in the site assessment files and are to be reviewed every five years for remedial determination.

Federal facilities records – The regional unit responsible for managing the Federal facilities process is responsible for managing and implementing the disposition of the Federal agency hazardous waste compliance site files, also known as Federal facilities files, consisting of site-specific records relating to hazardous waste sites at Federal facilities that have been submitted under RCRA or CERCLA for preliminary assessments. Remedial site file records for Federal facilities (National Contingency Plan (NCP), 40 CFR 300.5) are the responsibility of the lead agency and copies maintained by EPA may be destroyed when no longer needed.

FUDS - The Department of Defense (DOD) is responsible for environmental restoration of properties, known as formerly used defense sites (FUDS) that were formerly owned by, leased to or otherwise possessed by the United States and under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense. The Army is the lead agent for the program and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers executes the program on behalf of the Army and DOD. The scope and magnitude of the program are significant, with more than 10,000 properties identified for potential inclusion in the program. Information about the origin and extent of contamination, land transfer issues, past and present property ownership, and program policies must be evaluated before DOD considers a property eligible for Defense Environment Restoration Account funding under the FUDs program. Environmental cleanup at FUDS properties is conducted in accordance with CERCLA. Records include documents related to investigation and cleanup activities of hazardous waste. Documentation may include sampling and assessment of contaminated areas, characterization of site conditions, determination of the nature and extent of contamination, selection of response actions, cleanup and closeout of sites, and correspondence with EPA, other Federal or State agencies. FUDS, including those on Tribal lands, that are placed on the NPL, and where EPA becomes the lead agency, are covered by item a.

Landmark cases for enforcement actions – Landmark cases are historic, exceptional cases of major, lasting interest at the national or regional level, as well as cases of major precedential significance affecting the legal responsibilities of one or more industrial or commercial sectors across the country. Landmark cases typically involve substantial interest on the part of the public and the media, as well as significant interest on the part of elected officials.

Financial assurance documents – Financial assurance documents are “ability to pay” documents, and negotiable instruments such as letters of credit and other financial assurance mechanisms acceptable to the Agency. Original negotiable instruments must be protected and kept in fireproof, locked containers such as a safe. Copies of negotiable instruments may not be made in order to maintain integrity of financial instruments which name EPA as beneficiary.

Local government reimbursement program records – Local government reimbursement records differ slightly from Superfund site-specific grants because reimbursements under this program must be repaid to EPA only if the recipient is able to recover the costs. The local government recipient of funds must maintain their files on the response action for 10 years. At that time, the local government must offer the records to EPA before destruction. Typically, these records include more detailed technical records relating to the incident and response action. EPA will review the files for enforcement value and determine whether they warrant integration and retention with the EPA portion of the file.

Reasons for Disposition:

The following change was made in the 07/31/2017 version:

Revised file closure instructions for item f.
Added item h with retention that is consistent with other grants covered by schedule 1003 item b.
The following change was made in the 05/31/2017 version:

Updated guidance on financial assurance documents.
The following changes were made in the 04/30/2017 version:

Added grants which are filed separately from the site file and needed for cost recovery to 3rd bullet of item c.
Deleted item e for grants not needed for cost recovery because they are covered by schedule 1003 item b.
Updated guidance on grants.
The following changes were made in the 03/31/2017 version:

Revised schedule description.
Revised disposition items and added new item g.
Revised retention of item e.
Revised guidance.
The following changes were made in the 08/31/2015 version:

Revised schedule description.
Added types of documents for each category of records and revised disposition instructions in item a.
Revised disposition instructions in item b.
Revised description of item d.
Revised guidance.
The following change was made in the 12/31/2014 version:

Revised file closure instructions for item a to replace reference to CERCLIS with SEMS.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.

Custodians:

Multiple units

Related Schedules:

EPA 0008, EPA 0052, EPA 0755, EPA 1003, EPA 1004

Previous NARA Disposal Authority:

Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http://intranet.epa.gov/records/schedule/consolidation/files/1036_Env_Programs_-_site-specific_Crosswalk.docx.

Entry: 11/02/2011

EPA Approval: 11/06/2013

NARA Approval: Pending