EPA Records Schedule 1047
Status: Final 05312017
Title: Permits
Program: All Programs
Applicability: Agency-wide
Function: 108 - Environmental Management
NARA Disposal Authority:
 DAA-0412-2013-0018-0001 (Item a)
 DAA-0412-2013-0018-0002 (Item b)
 DAA-0412-2013-0018-0003 (Item c)
 DAA-0412-2013-0018-0004 (Item d)
 DAA-0412-2013-0018-0005 (Item e)
Description:
This schedule covers records related to the issuance or denial of environmental permits by EPA offices or authorized states federal facilities interstate or local agencies.
Disposition Instructions:
Item a: Historically significant permits
Includes but is not limited to:
 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) generators transporters and treatment storage and disposal (TSD) facilities files for RCRA land disposal permits including notification forms permit applications and modifications background and supporting documentation public notices drafts and final permits comments and records of public meetings fact sheets exception reports appeals import and export notifications closure and post-closure documents inspection reports court orders manifests delistings correspondence records relating to interim status and related records and
 Underground injection control (UIC) Class I II III V and VI permits when EPA is the permitting authority UIC aquifer exemptions land ban petitions monitoring reports for UIC Class I permits including permit applications and final permits permit modifications background and supporting documentation public notices documentation of compliance with statutory requirements (e.g. Wild and Scenic Rivers Act Endangered Species Act National Historic Preservation Act) comments and records of public meetings fact sheets exception reports appeals correspondence and related records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0018-0001
 Permanent
 Close RCRA records at permit termination if post-closure care is not required if post-closure care is required close records at completion of post-closure care period. Close UIC records when a well has been properly plugged abandoned and terminated per EPA requirements or when a permit expires or when a permit application has been denied.
 Transfer electronic records to the National Archives 5 years after file closure. Transfer non-electronic records to the National Archives 15 years after file closure.
Item b: Administrative records for historically significant permits
Includes but is not limited to:
 Administrative records for RCRA land disposal permits when EPA is the permitting authority if maintained separately from the permit file including permit applications draft permits or notices of intent to deny statements of basis and documentation comments received during the public comment period public hearing transcripts final permits and related records and
 Administrative records for UIC and UIC land ban exemptions if maintained separately from the permit file including land ban petitions permit applications draft permits or notices of intent to deny statements of basis and documentation comments received during the public comment period public hearing transcripts final permits and related records.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0018-0002
 Disposable
 Close at issuance of administrative record.
 Destroy 30 years after file closure.
Item c: Routine permits
Includes but is not limited to:
 Administrative records for permits excluding those covered by item b including permit applications draft permits or notices of intent to deny statements of basis and documentation comments received during the public comment period public hearing transcripts final permits and related records
 Other permit files such as UIC (excluding where EPA is the permitting authority and UIC aquifer exemptions) national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) pretreatment sewage treatment ocean dumping new source review (NSR) (including prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) nonattainment NSR and minor NSR) and Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) disposal including draft and final permits permit modifications background and supporting documentation public notices comments and records of public meetings fact sheets exception reports appeals delistings correspondence and related records (except those covered in items a and d)
 RCRA permits excluding RCRA land disposal covered by item a including facilities that comply with regulations without following the usual permitting process and contains notification forms permit applications and modifications background and supporting documentation public notices drafts and final permits comments and records of public meetings fact sheets exception reports appeals import and export notifications closure and post-closure documents inspection reports court orders manifests delistings correspondence records relating to interim status and related records and
 UIC Class V survey forms where the facilities have responded that there is no shallow well on their property and do not require a permit or businesses change ownership or go bankrupt.
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0018-0003
 Disposable
 Close when administrative record is issued or permit is renewed terminated expired withdrawn or the determination has been made that a permit is not required or when no longer needed for current agency business.
 Destroy 10 years after file closure.
Item d: Dredging and fill permits (except the 404 program under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) covered by schedule 1035).
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0018-0004
 Disposable
 Close when permit is renewed or terminated (revocation or expiration) or at end of calendar year or when no longer needed for current agency business.
 Destroy 5 years after file closure.
Item e: Financial and state assurance documents
NARA Disposal Authority: DAA-0412-2013-0018-0005
 Disposable
 Close when related records are destroyed or transferred to the National Archives.
 Destroy after file closure or return to submitter.
Guidance:
Media neutral  This schedule authorizes the disposition of the record copy in any media (media neutral). However if the format (e.g. electronic) of permanent records is specified in a records schedule approved by NARA the records are to be transferred to the National Archives in accordance with NARA standards at the time of transfer. If the record copy is created in electronic format or digitized (e.g. imaged) and maintained electronically (e.g. Data on Aquatic Resources Tracking for Effective Regulation (DARTER) maintained in the Office of Water) the electronic records must be retrievable and usable for as long as needed to conduct Agency business and to meet NARA-approved disposition to comply with 36 CFR Sections 1236.10 1236.12 1236.14 and 1236.20. Retention and disposition requirements for the various components of electronic systems (e.g. software input output system documentation) are covered in schedule 1012 Information and Technology Management. In addition to 36 CFR 1236 see Basic Requirements of an Electronic Recordkeeping System at EPA on the EPA records intranet site [http:intranet.epa.govrecordstoolserks.html].
Sensitive information - When records are due for destruction according to the disposition instructions records containing sensitive information (e.g. confidential business information (CBI) personally identifiable information (PII)) must be shredded or otherwise definitively destroyed to protect confidentiality.
Recordkeeping requirements for authorized states If authorized states maintain disposable records for the retention periods identified above the program office may decide to review the records in the state offices rather than maintain copies in regional offices and destroy the copies it receives. If recordkeeping requirements (e.g. what records to keep and how long to keep them) for authorized states are not covered in EPAs regulations they should be established in a memorandum of understanding or agreement.
Draft permits and working papers  Draft permits and working papers may be destroyed after approval of the final permit.
Notification forms  Notification forms that have been withdrawn or canceled prior to issuance of a permit and TSDs that have not gone through the permitting process are subject to the same retention as the permits. Regional offices may determine the appropriate file closure for notification and other files for which a permit is not issued.
Land disposal permits  If land disposal permits are included or combined with other permits they may be separated if practical and volume warrants.
Financial assurance documents  Financial assurance documents are ability to pay documents and negotiable instruments such as letters of credit and other financial assurance mechanisms acceptable to the Agency. Original negotiable instruments must be protected and kept in fireproof locked containers such as a safe. Copies of the negotiable instruments may not be made in order to maintain the integrity of financial instruments which name EPA as beneficiary.
Related records - Compliance and enforcement records are covered by schedule 1044. Clean Water Act Section 404 records are covered by EPA 1035. Regional Off-Site Contact (ROC) records related to facilities approved to receive Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) wastes are covered by schedule 1036.
Copies of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives - The copy of permanent electronic records transferred to the National Archives (previously scheduled as schedule 0205a(3) and 0478a(3)) maintained by the submitting office until they are notified by NARA that the transfer is successful is a nonrecord (schedule 0008 item a) and can be deleted when no longer needed.
Reasons for Disposition:
The following changes were made in the 05312017 version:
 Revised file closure instructions for items a and c.
 Added cross reference for Regional Off-Site Contact (ROC) records in guidance.
 Updated guidance on financial assurance documents.
The following changes were made in the 08312015 version:
 Moved from draft status to final.
 Added NARA approval date.
The following changes were made in the 05312015 version:
 Revised the file closure instructions for RCRA records covered by item a.
 Deleted Regional Off-Site Contact (ROC) records covered by item c due to re-evaluation of retention.
This schedule combines and consolidates previously approved EPA and GRS schedule items.
Custodians:
Multiple units
Related Schedules:
EPA 0008 EPA 1035 EPA 1036 EPA 1044
Previous NARA Disposal Authority:
Previous NARA disposal authorities can be found at: http:intranet.epa.govrecordsscheduleconsolidationfiles1047_Permits_Crosswalk.docx.
Entry: 07122012
EPA Approval: 08092013
NARA Approval: 08062015