W
astewater Security:
An Operators Perspective
In 2002 Congress passed the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism
Preparedness and Response Act (Public Law 107-188) commonly referred
to as the Bioterrorism Act or BT Act. The BT Act required certain drinking
water systems to conduct a vulnerability assessment (VA) and update or
create an emergency response plan (ERP).
Although wastewater systems
are not currently required to comply with the BT Act Congress is giving the
matter consideration.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency strongly
encourages wastewater systems to assess their vulnerabilities and use the
findings to update or develop an emergency response plan.
Through interviews with real-life wastewater system operators and manager
this program reveals why it is important for wastewater systems to be
prepared to handle emergencies. The program highlights:
real life examples of security incidents at wastewater systems
the six basic steps of a vulnerability assessment
some software tools available to help small systems complete the
VA and ERP
the core elements of an ERP and
the need to practice and revise the completed ERP regularly.
After viewing the program the wastewater system should:
know the basic steps involved in preparing a vulnerability assessment
know enough about a vulnerability assessment to ask informed questions
if they need assistance from EPA Regional Offices State Agencies third
party providers or other resources
know the core elements of an ERP
understand the decision making process involved in activation of an ERP
and
recognize the importance of practicing the ERP and keeping it updated.
Should you have any security related questions contact EPAs Water 
Wastewater Security Division at:
202-564-3779 or visit our website at:
http:cfpub.epa.govsafewaterwatersecurityindex.cfm
Should you have a security related emergency
contact the local authorities by dialing 911
call the National Emergency Operations Center at:
202-564-3850.










1.
2.
Wastewater Security:
An Operators
Perspective